Have Dark Forces Been Messing With the Cosmos?
['Have Dark Forces Been Messing With the Cosmos?', 'Have Dark Forces Been Messing With the Cosmos?', 'Axions? Phantom energy? Astrophysicists scramble to patch a hole in the universe, rewriting cosmic history in the process.', 'There was, you might say, a disturbance in the Force.', 'Long, long ago, when the universe was only about 100,000 years old — a buzzing, expanding mass of particles and radiation — a strange new energy field switched on. That energy suffused space with a kind of cosmic antigravity, delivering a not-so-gentle boost to the expansion of the universe.', 'Then, after another 100,000 years or so, the new field simply winked off, leaving no trace other than a speeded-up universe.', 'The cosmos is expanding only about 9 percent more quickly than theory prescribes. But this slight-sounding discrepancy has intrigued astronomers, who think it might be revealing something new about the universe.', 'And so, for the last couple of years, they have been gathering in workshops and conferences to search for a mistake or loophole in their previous measurements and calculations, so far to no avail.', 'Now ideas are popping up. Some researchers say the problem could be solved by inferring the existence of previously unknown subatomic particles. Others, such as the Johns Hopkins group, are invoking new kinds of energy fields.', 'Thus far, there is no evidence for most of these ideas. If any turn out to be right, scientists may have to rewrite the story of the origin, history and, perhaps, fate of the universe.', 'Or it could all be a mistake. Astronomers have rigorous methods to estimate the effects of statistical noise and other random errors on their results; not so for the unexamined biases called systematic errors.', 'Edwin Hubble in 1949, two decades after he discovered that the universe is expanding.', 'Generations of great astronomers have come to grief trying to measure the universe. At issue is a number called the Hubble constant, named after Edwin Hubble, the Mount Wilson astronomer who in 1929 discovered that the universe is expanding.', 'As space expands, it carries galaxies away from each other like the raisins in a rising cake. The farther apart two galaxies are, the faster they will fly away from each other. The Hubble constant simply says by how much.', 'But to calibrate the Hubble constant, astronomers depend on so-called standard candles: objects, such as supernova explosions and certain variable stars, whose distances can be estimated by luminosity or some other feature. This is where the arguing begins.', 'The discrepancy — 9 percent — sounds fatal but may not be, astronomers contend, because Planck and human astronomers do very different kinds of observations.', 'Planck is considered the gold standard of cosmology. It spent four years studying the cosmic bath of microwaves left over from the end of the Big Bang, when the universe was just 380,000 years old. But it did not measure the Hubble constant directly. Rather, the Planck group derived the value of the constant, and other cosmic parameters, from a mathematical model largely based on those microwaves.', 'In short, Planck’s Hubble constant is based on a cosmic baby picture. In contrast, the classical astronomical value is derived from what cosmologists modestly call “local measurements,” a few billion light-years deep into a middle-aged universe.', 'What if that baby picture left out or obscured some important feature of the universe?', 'And so cosmologists are off to the game that Lloyd Knox, an astrophysicist from the University of California, Davis, called “cosmological Whac-a-Mole” at the recent Chicago meeting: attempting to fix the model of the early universe, to make it expand a little faster without breaking what the model already does well.', 'A more drastic approach, from the Johns Hopkins group, invokes fields of exotic anti-gravitational energy. The idea exploits an aspect of string theory, the putative but unproven “theory of everything” that posits that the elementary constituents of reality are very tiny, wriggling strings.', "Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.", 'String theory suggests that space could be laced with exotic energy fields associated with lightweight particles or forces yet undiscovered. Those fields, collectively called quintessence, could act in opposition to gravity, and could change over time — popping up, decaying or altering their effect, switching from repulsive to attractive.', 'The jury is still out. Dr. Riess said that the idea seems to work, which is not to say that he agrees with it, or that it is right. Nature, manifest in future observations, will have the final say.', 'Dr. Knox called the Johns Hopkins paper “an existence proof” that the Hubble problem could be solved. “I think that’s new,” he said.', 'Dr. Randall, however, has taken issue with aspects of the Johns Hopkins calculations. She and a trio of Harvard postdocs are working on a similar idea that she says works as well and is mathematically consistent. “It’s novel and very cool,” Dr. Randall said.', 'The first episode occurred when the universe was less than a trillionth of a trillionth of a second old. At that moment, cosmologists surmise, a violent ballooning propelled the Big Bang; in a fraction of a trillionth of a second, this event — named “inflation” by the cosmologist Alan Guth, of M.I.T. — smoothed and flattened the initial chaos into the more orderly universe observed today. Nobody knows what drove inflation.', 'The second episode is unfolding today: cosmic expansion is speeding up. But why? The issue came to light in 1998, when two competing teams of astronomers asked whether the collective gravity of the galaxies might be slowing the expansion enough to one day drag everything together into a Big Crunch.', 'Nobel Prize.', 'Under the influence of dark energy, the cosmos is now doubling in size every 10 billion years — to what end, nobody knows.', 'Workers with the European Planck spacecraft at the European Space Agency spaceport in Kourou, French Guiana, in 2009.', 'But if dark energy is temporary — if one day it switches off — cosmologists and metaphysicians can all go back to contemplating a sensible tomorrow.', 'But the future is still up for grabs.', 'This dire scenario emerges from the work of Guido Risaliti, of the University of Florence in Italy, and Elisabeta Lusso, of Durham University in England. For the last four years, they have plumbed the deep history of the universe, using violent, faraway cataclysms called quasars as distance markers.', 'Quasars arise from supermassive black holes at the centers of galaxies; they are the brightest objects in nature, and can be seen clear across the universe. As standard candles, quasars aren’t ideal because their masses vary widely. Nevertheless, the researchers identified some regularities in the emissions from quasars, allowing the history of the cosmos to be traced back nearly 12 billion years. The team found that the rate of cosmic expansion deviated from expectations over that time span.', 'One interpretation of the results is that dark energy is not constant after all, but is changing, growing denser and thus stronger over cosmic time. It so happens that this increase in dark energy also would be just enough to resolve the discrepancy in measurements of the Hubble constant.', 'As the universe expands, the push from phantom energy would grow without bounds, eventually overcoming gravity and tearing apart first Earth, then atoms.', 'The Hubble-constant community responded to the new report with caution. “If it holds up, this is a very interesting result,” said Dr. Freedman.', 'Astronomers have been trying to take the measure of this dark energy for two decades. Two space missions — the European Space Agency’s Euclid and NASA’s Wfirst — have been designed to study dark energy and hopefully deliver definitive answers in the coming decade. The fate of the universe is at stake.', 'In the meantime, everything, including phantom energy, is up for consideration, according to Dr. Riess.', 'Does the Universe Still Need Einstein?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Split-Sex Animals Are Unusual, Yes, but Not as Rare as You’d Think
['From butterflies to chickens to lobsters, mixed male-female bodies offer clues as to why certain diseases strike one gender more often than the other.', 'Top left, a male blue morpho butterfly; top middle, a female. The remainder are gynandromorphic, with both male and female characteristics.', 'All serious butterfly collectors remember their first gynandromorph: a butterfly with a color and pattern that are distinctly male on one wing and female on the other.', 'He was sure that the delicate black outlines between male and female regions appearing on one wing — but not the other — identified a key facet of animal development.', 'Gynandromorph butterflies and other half-male, half-female creatures, particularly birds, have fascinated both scientists and amateurs for centuries. The latest sensation was a half-red, half-taupe cardinal that became a regular visitor in the backyard of Shirley and Jeffrey Caldwell in Erie, Pa. Although the bird would have to be tested to confirm that it is a gynandromorph, its color division strongly suggests that it is, scientists say.', 'Mammals have X and Y chromosomes, birds and insects have Z and W, and some reptiles can change their sex depending on temperature, or a combination of temperature and sex chromosomes, she said.', 'A chicken with bilateral gynandromorphism.', 'How gynandromorphs are born at all still remains a mystery. For birds, the most likely explanation is that a female makes an unusual double-nucleus egg cell, one with a Z chromosome and one with a W chromosome, and each is fertilized by a Z sperm, making some cells ZZ and others ZW in the same individual, Dr. Arnold said.', 'It’s impossible to track an entire population to understand what percentage have unusual sex chromosomes, Dr. Patel said. In the lab, scientists have used radiation to create gynandromorph flies, he said, but it is difficult to sort out the potential causes — including environmental harm — in a wild population.', 'Why cells of opposite sex end up on opposite sides of these gynandromorphs remains unclear, Dr. Arnold said. “I don’t have a good explanation,” he said.', 'Animals can also develop as mosaics, with some cells genetically different from others. Some of Dr. Patel’s butterflies, for instance, show male coloration and patterns on parts of a wing, rather than the entire side.', 'From left, a male Pamela butterfly, a mosaic gynandromorph and a female.', 'Obesity, metabolic syndrome, autoimmune disease, Alzheimer’s, even aging differs by sex, Dr. Arnold noted. Twenty years ago, he said, scientists didn’t think that sex chromosomes played any role at all in causing sex differences in these diseases. “But now we know it makes a difference in mice, so we can say: Where does it make a difference in humans?” he said.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'Most people have 46 chromosomes, with 23 inherited from each parent. A few chromosomes can come with an extra copy, including chromosomes 13, 18 and 21 — which is commonly called Down syndrome. Losing any chromosome other than a second sex chromosome is always lethal to a fetus.', 'But the sex chromosome is the only one that people can survive with just one copy, Dr. Graves said. “Girls with a single X and no Y suffer few anomalies because the second X is largely inactive anyway. After all, males have only one X,” she said.', 'It is not clear what mechanisms the body has to ensure that most men get only one Y and most women get two X chromosomes, said Karissa Sanbonmatsu, a structural biologist and principal investigator at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. In typical females, one X is usually — but not always — turned off, she said, and some research suggests that there is a mechanism that counts how many X chromosomes are present and generally turns off all but one of them.', 'People with androgen insensitivity syndrome, for instance, are born with XY chromosomes, but develop as female, because their cells cannot process male hormones. “So, it’s as if the testosterone doesn’t exist,” she said. They are infertile.', 'The more science learns about sex, “the more we find anomalies,” said Alice Dreger, a historian of sexuality.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Matter: DNA Gets a New — and Bigger — Genetic Alphabet
['In 1985, the chemist Steven A. Benner sat down with some colleagues and a notebook and sketched out a way to expand the alphabet of DNA. He has been trying to make those sketches real ever since.', "Crafting the four new bases that don't exist in nature was a chemical tour-de-force. They fit neatly into DNA’s double helix, and enzymes can read them as easily as natural bases, in order to make molecules.", 'Hachimoji DNA could have many applications, including a far more durable way to store digital data that could last for centuries. “This could be huge that way,” said Dr. Nicholas V. Hud, a biochemist at Georgia Institute of Technology who was not involved in research.', 'It also raises a profound question about the nature of life elsewhere in the universe, offering the possibility that the four-base DNA we are familiar with may not be the only chemistry that could support life.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'The four natural bases of DNA are all anchored to molecular backbones. A pair of backbones can join into a double helix because their bases are attracted to each other. The bases form a bond with their hydrogen atoms.', 'But bases don’t stick together at random. C can only bond to G, and A can only bond to T. These strict rules help ensure that DNA strands don’t clump together into a jumble. No matter what sequence of bases are contained in natural DNA, it still keeps its shape.', 'But those four bases are not the only compounds that can attach to DNA’s backbone and link to another base — at least on paper. Dr. Benner and his colleagues thought up a dozen alternatives.', 'Working at the Swiss university ETH Zurich at the time, Dr. Benner tried to make some of those imaginary bases real.', 'Once Dr. Benner and his colleagues combined real atoms, according to his designs, the artificial bases didn’t work as he had hoped.', 'Reading about Dr. Benner’s early experiments, Dr. Romesberg decided to try to create his own bases.', 'In the years that followed, Dr. Romesberg and his colleagues fashioned enzymes that could copy DNA made from both natural bases and unnatural, oily ones.', 'In recent years, Dr. Romesberg’s team has begun making unnatural proteins from these unnatural genes. He founded a company, Synthorx, to develop some of these proteins as cancer drugs.', 'They then went on to create a second pair of new bases. Now with eight bases to play with, the researchers started building DNA molecules with a variety of different sequences. The researchers found that no matter which sequence they created, the molecules still formed the standard double helix.', 'Because Hachimoji DNA held onto this shape, it could act like regular DNA: it could store information, and that information could be read to make a molecule.', 'For a cell, the first step in making a molecule is to read a gene using special enzymes. They make a copy of the gene in a single-stranded version of DNA, called RNA.', 'Depending on the gene, the cell will then do one of two things with that RNA. In some cases, it will use the RNA as a guide to build a protein. But in other cases, the RNA molecule floats off to do a job of its own.', 'Dr. Benner and his colleagues created a Hachimoji gene for an RNA molecule. They predicted that the RNA molecule would be able to grab a molecule called a fluorophore. Cradled by the RNA molecule, the fluorophore would absorb light and release it as a green flash.', 'Andrew Ellington, an evolutionary engineer at the University of Texas, led the effort to find an enzyme that could read Hachimoji DNA. He and his colleagues found a promising one made by a virus, and they tinkered with it until the enzyme could easily read all eight bases.', 'They mixed the enzyme in test tubes with the Hachimoji gene. As they had hoped, their test tubes began glowing green.', 'In the future, Hachimoji DNA may store information of a radically different sort. It might someday encode a movie or a spreadsheet.', 'Today, movies, spreadsheets and other digital files are typically stored on silicon chips or magnetic tapes. But those kinds of storage have serious shortcomings. For one thing, they can deteriorate in just years.', 'DNA, by contrast, can remain intact for centuries.', 'With eight bases instead of four, Hachimoji DNA could potentially encode far more information. “DNA capable of twice as much storage? That’s pretty amazing in my view,” said Dr. Ellington.', 'Beyond our current need for storage, Hachimoji DNA also offers some clues about life itself. Scientists have long wondered if our DNA evolved only four bases because they’re the only ones that can work in genes. Could life have taken a different path?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Oscars Red Carpet 2019: Stars Arriving at the 91st Academy Awards
['Lady Gaga, nominated for best actress in a leading role for “A Star Is Born.” She is wearing Alexander McQueen.', 'All the looks from Hollywood’s biggest night.']


Scene City: Rami Malek, Lady Gaga, Mahershala Ali and Regina King Celebrate Their Oscars at the Governors Ball
['After the Oscars ceremony, the stars took escalators up to the Governors Ball for the official after-party. Rami Malek, who won best actor for his role in “Bohemian Rhapsody,” sprayed champagne in the engraving room. “You’re all going to get wet,” he yelled.', 'Newly minted Oscar winners get their trophies engraved at the official Oscars after-party.']


The Story of Best Actress Oscar Winner Olivia Colman’s Gown
['That Mary would be Mary Fellowes, a fellow Brit and a stylist who has worked for 11 Vogue titles and has dressed the actresses Tracee Ellis Ross, Liv Tyler and Amy Adams, among others, over the course of almost two decades.', 'When Prada agreed to make her Oscars gown, Ms. Colman knew she wanted a giant bow on the back.', 'The embroidery on the Prada gown took a dozen artisans more than 300 hours to complete.', 'Mary Fellowes, a creative director and stylist, at her home in London.', 'But initial calls to big-name luxury brands for ready-to-wear outfits in the early stages of their partnership “did not get what I felt to be a satisfying response,” Ms. Fellowes said as she sat at her kitchen table in London, immaculate in polished black leather and oversize cat’s-eye spectacles.', 'New friends are made.', 'Suddenly, the balance of power had shifted, and the two women found themselves able to pick and choose. So they raised the stakes. They decided that if Ms. Colman was going to endorse a brand by wearing it on the red carpet, it should have associations that mattered to her. It should ideally be, for example, family-owned; make efforts toward sustainability; and maybe involve another working mother (Ms. Colman has three children).', 'Emilia Wickstead gown worn by Ms. Colman when she won the best actress Bafta this month, and the caped black Stella McCartney dress (made with recycled bamboo) that Ms. Colman wore to scoop up the Golden Globe in the same category in January.', 'Mary Fellowes inspects the gown.', 'When it came to the Oscars ceremony dress, Ms. Fellowes said, there was one house in particular that she believed would check all their boxes: strong, intelligent voice; distinctive visual codes; and shared values. So what did she do when that brand called to say yes, it would make a bespoke gown for Ms. Colman for the Academy Awards?', 'The two women then drew pictures of dream dresses in the car on the way to the Palm Springs International Film Festival. Ms. Fellowes had brought along a file of Prada dresses, fabrics and embroidery from years gone by. Ms. Colman said she knew she wanted simple, with a big bow on the back. The Prada atelier set about making their shared vision a reality.', 'Many years ago — early in Ms. Colman’s career, during her bachelorette party in Paris — she and her friends stumbled into a Prada boutique. At the time, she remembered, she declared: “One day, when I have finally made it, I will wear a Prada dress.” By any measure, that day has come.', 'Elizabeth Paton is a reporter for the Styles section, covering the fashion and luxury sectors in Europe. Before joining The Times in 2015, she was a reporter at the Financial Times both in London and New York.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Lady Gaga’s Long Road to That Giant Diamond Necklace
['I miss the meat dress — but what a diamond on the Oscars red carpet!', 'When was it decided that to be taken seriously as an actress you need to dress in serious couture? I’m asking because I never got the memo, but clearly, Lady Gaga and her styling team did.', 'Plus, rumor has it that her Tiffany deal is the biggest red carpet jewelry deal ever signed.', 'At the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards, in her infamous meat dress.', 'At The Brit Awards in 2010.', 'Lady Gaga arriving inside an egg at the Grammy Awards in 2011.', 'It is, of course, entirely Gaga’s right to mutate every few years into a new persona, both artistically and stylistically. In fact, such mutation is part of her identity. This is, after all, the woman who once emerged from a giant egg, above, at the Grammys. She claimed to have been marinating inside it for approximately three days.', 'And to be fair, her fashionization has probably been coming for awhile. We should have seen it coming when she accepted the 2016 Golden Globe for best actress in a limited series for her role in “American Horror Story,” wearing Marilyn Monroe-esque black velvet Versace.', 'Tom Eerebout.', 'Lady Gaga attends the 2013 American Music Awards.', 'Maybe we should chalk it up to growing up. It’s not fair to demand our superstars remain rebels forever. It’s probably not even possible.', 'And yet. And yet. I find myself waxing nostalgic about those weird horn implants she had for awhile under her skin. I miss the crazy hoof-like shoes. I never thought I would say that, but there you go.', 'Once upon an Oscars we, the watching public, thought Bjork and her famous swan dress were as wild as it was going to get, but just imagine what early Gaga could have done with current Gaga’s red carpet moments.', 'The mind boggles.', 'Also, just imagine what Ryan Seacrest would have done with any of those particular fashion moments. They might actually have rendered him speechless. Which would have been a small step for one woman, and a big step for womankind.', 'Lady Gaga on the Oscars red carpet in 2015.', 'And on the Oscars red carpet in 2016.', 'Kate Hudson and Lady Gaga at the Met Gala in 2016.', 'At the 2017 Grammy Awards.', 'At an event in Los Angeles in October 2018.', 'At an event in Los Angeles in November 2018.', 'At the Venice Film Festival in August 2018.', 'At the Toronto International Film Festival in 2018.', 'At the premiere of “A Star Is Born” in Los Angeles in 2018.', 'At the Golden Globe Awards in 2019.', 'Gaga could have helped them break the yoke, which everyone says lies so heavy on their shoulders, of red carpet conformity. Forced us all to wrestle with our own preconceptions about what beauty and stardom really means. Helped fashion expand its own thinking. Challenged the status quo instead of pandering to it. Proved with a wink that her most recent incarnation was simply a character she had played to perfection (give her an award for that!).', 'Because the thing is, if she is to be believed, she wasn’t born this way.', 'At an event in New York in January 2019.', 'At the Critics’ Choice Awards in January.', 'At the Screen Actors Guild Awards in 2019.', 'At the 2019 Grammy Awards in February.', "Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Spike Lee’s Tribute to Prince at the Oscars
['Spike Lee’s Prince-symbol necklace is gold, framed in diamonds with an opal, and his gold Jordans were commissioned by Michael Jordan.', 'Mr. Lee won his first Academy Award, as his film "BlacKkKlansman" received the Oscar for best adapted screenplay.', 'The day that Prince died in April 2016, Spike Lee threw a celebration of his friend’s life. On a brick townhouse-lined street in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, hundreds of people gathered in the street, as Mr. Lee blasted song after song from the steps of his building. He played deep cuts and greatest hits, as neighbors wept and sang along into the night.', 'Mr. Lee on the red carpet.', 'Mr. Scognamiglio first met Mr. Lee about a year ago and the two have become friends; the director can often be seen sporting the artisan’s oversized jewelry.', 'The last time he saw his friend was after a performance of the musical “Hamilton,” Mr. Lee’s seventh time seeing it.', 'After the show, Mr. Lee said he went backstage and cast members told him that they were going to an after-party hosted by Prince.', 'The song was recovered by Troy Carter, a friend of Mr. Lee’s who is an adviser to the Prince estate (and who also used to manage Lady Gaga). Mr. Carter called Mr. Lee and told him that among the thousands of disorganized cassettes that the musician had left behind, one had been found that featured just Prince and a piano.', 'He does not think that finding the tape was a coincidence.', 'Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


New Ultima Thule Photos Were Made in a Flash
['The images were recorded while the New Horizons spacecraft was moving at more than 32,000 miles per hour.', 'An animation made with 14 images of the object nicknamed Ultima Thule taken by the New Horizons spacecraft during its New Year’s Eve flyby.', 'When NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft flew by a small distant world on New Year’s Eve, it tried to use one of its cameras to capture the highest-resolution images that were possible. Pulling this off presented risks.', 'On Friday, mission scientists announced success.', 'A new, higher-resolution image of Ultima Thule captured by the New Horizons spacecraft.', 'Ultima Thule is a pristine leftover from the earliest days of the solar system.', 'The images have a resolution of about 33 meters, or 110 feet, per pixel. However, because of the rolling of the spacecraft needed to make proper use of the spacecraft’s lower resolution panoramic camera, in addition to the long exposures required by the dim light that far from sun, the images were blurred.', 'Still, even the subtle improvements will give better understanding of the pits and bright patterns on Ultima Thule’s surface. A clearer look at the rims of the pits might help tell whether they are small impact craters or they formed from erosion, for example. Counting craters could reveal the rate of collisions in this distant part of the solar system, while erosion would hold clues to what Ultima Thule is made of.', 'An earlier version of this article misstated the reason that images taken by the New Horizons spacecraft were somewhat blurred. It was the motion of the spacecraft needed for a lower resolution camera and the longer exposure times because of low light that caused blurring, not the speed of the spacecraft.', 'Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Virgin Galactic Sends a Rocket Plane to Space Again, in Its Highest Flight Yet
['This was Virgin Galactic’s fifth supersonic-powered test flight. The venture marked another step forward in a new kind of space race.', 'After its first spaceflight in December, Virgin Galactic sent the same vessel past the edge of the atmosphere for a second time on Friday. This time, the rocket plane went higher and faster than before — and it had three crew members on board instead of two.', 'The flight marked another step forward in a new kind of space race — one that aims to allow private citizens (who can afford the ticket) an opportunity to exit our atmosphere.', 'It was the company’s fifth supersonic-powered test flight, and it reached an altitude of nearly 56 miles before returning safely to the Mojave Desert runway in California where it took off. Beth Moses, an astronaut trainer and microgravity research expert, was in the cabin as the company’s first test passenger in space.', 'Unity reached Mach 3 — three times the speed of sound — before the rocket motor was switched off shortly before 9 a.m. Then the vessel coasted to its highest altitude of 55.87 miles above sea level. Two tail booms rotated into a “feathered” position to create drag, allowing the vessel to fall gently back into the atmosphere and, ultimately, glide toward the runway.', 'The Virgin Galactic spaceship VSS Unity, with the chief pilot Dave Mackay, the co-pilot Michael Masucci and Beth Moses, an astronaut trainer and microgravity research expert, as it flew to space on Friday.', 'George T. Whitesides, the chief executive of Virgin Galactic, said the research conducted on the flight focused not only on the vessel’s trajectory, but also on the passenger experience.', 'Ms. Moses’ job was to evaluate how passengers might experience a trip in the cabin. She observed the light, the temperature and the feeling of moving around in zero gravity. In an interview after the flight, she said it felt comfortable, and the view was beautiful.', 'According to Virgin Galactic, the vehicle made its second successful space flight, with three crew members aboard. Powered by a hybrid rocket motor, VSS Unity reached Mach 3 and a high altitude of nearly 56 miles above Earth.', 'Ventures like these are more useful for testing the limits of tourism than for advancing scientific research, said Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He said the Virgin flights could be used to conduct microgravity tests or equipment checks.', 'And the three people on board — two pilots, David Mackay and Michael Masucci, and Ms. Moses — got the vantage point of a lifetime.', "Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.", 'In an interview after the flight, Mr. Mackay commented on how quickly the sky turned black once the atmosphere faded, and Mr. Masucci said he was astonished by the sight of a very bright moon. They said the flight was amazing, but not frightening.', 'Virgin Galactic is expected to keep doing test flights and making improvements in terms of safety, altitude and weight capacity. It is still unclear when private citizens — including the more than 600 who have already bought tickets — will be allowed to take a ride.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Japan’s Hayabusa2 Spacecraft Lands on Ryugu Asteroid
['The probe ascended from the space rock after firing a bullet to help with the gathering of samples that will eventually be returned to Earth.', 'The shadow of Japan’s Hayabusa2 spacecraft cast over the asteroid Ryugu last year.', 'Tonight, a Japanese spacecraft completed a touchdown on the surface of an asteroid, where it fired a projectile at the rock’s surface rock. A successful mission could help advance understanding of how our planet formed in the early solar system.', 'What did Hayabusa2 do when it landed?', 'Hayabusa2 tried to collect material from the rugged surface of the asteroid with a device called a sampler horn.', 'Scientists fired a metal projectile into a gravel to simulate conditions on the asteroid Ryugu.', 'The spacecraft is carrying multiple projectiles so it can make more than one attempt at a touchdown. In March or April, Hayabusa2 is also expected to send an explosive package called a Small Carry-on Impactor to Ryugu’s surface to make an artificial crater. Hayabusa2 might collect another sample of the material exposed in the crater.', 'Why are they studying this asteroid?', 'Asteroids are bits and pieces leftover from the disc of gas and dust that formed around the young sun and never quite coalesced into a planet. They contain some almost pristine compounds that help tell what the early solar system was like 4.5 billion years ago.', 'Ryugu, as dark as coal, is a C-type, or carbonaceous, asteroid, meaning it is full of carbon molecules known as organics including possibly amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. Such molecules are not always associated with biology and can form from chemical reactions in deep space, but asteroids could have seeded Earth with the organic matter that led to life.', 'About three-quarters of asteroids in the solar system fall into the C-type.', 'Japan’s Hayabusa2 spacecraft is exploring Ryugu, an asteroid thought to contain material from the early solar system.', 'This space rock was discovered in 1999 and not given a name until 2015. Ryugu is named after Ryugu-jo, or dragon’s palace — a magical undersea palace in a Japanese folk tale.', 'Isn’t NASA doing something like this too?', 'Yes. The Osiris-Rex spacecraft is currently surveying another carbon-rich asteroid known as Bennu, and it too will collect samples and return them to Earth. Bennu is even smaller than Ryugu, about 500 yards wide. Osiris-rex will not return with its samples until 2023.', 'NASA and Japanese scientists plan to exchange samples of the two asteroids to compare the similarities and differences.', 'Has Japan done this before?', 'As the 2 in Hayabusa2 indicates, this is the second time that JAXA, the Japanese space agency, has sent a spacecraft to an asteroid.', 'Hayabusa2 is an improved version of Hayabusa, which visited a stony asteroid, Itokawa, in 2005. Despite several technical problems at Itokawa, Hayabusa returned a capsule to Earth in 2010 containing 1,500 particles from the asteroid.', 'Michael Roston is the senior staff editor for science. He was previously a social media editor for The Times and a home page producer.', 'Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


How Israel’s Moon Lander Got to the Launchpad
["SpaceIL's Beresheet spacecraft, with technicians and the company's C.E.O., Ido Anteby, second left, in December.", 'The privately built spacecraft will take a long trip to the moon, landing on its surface in April.', 'The challenge turned out to be much harder and much more expensive.', 'Yariv Bash, a co-founder of SpaceIL, which from its outset had an educational mission to inspire Israeli students to take an interest in space and engineering.', 'SpaceIL had given itself a mission, to inspire students in Israel to take an interest in science and engineering.', 'Beresheet will not take the quick, direct path to the moon. That would require a fuel-guzzling firing of a large engine to break out of Earth orbit and then another to slow down at the moon. Instead, with several engine firings, the spacecraft will slowly adjust its orbit, stretching to the outermost point until the moon’s gravity pulls it into lunar orbit.', 'That is a long and winding, four million mile-long journey to reach a destination that is a quarter million miles away.', 'In April, it is to land at a lava plain named Mare Serenitatis, or the Sea of Serenity. An instrument built by the Weizmann Institute of Science will measure the moon’s magnetic fields as it approaches, and that data could help give clear hints about the moon’s iron core.', 'Within a few days of its landing, Beresheet is expected to succumb to the heat of lunar noon. Then, its mission will end.', 'The price tag to build and launch Beresheet ended up at $100 million, not $10 million, and the spacecraft bulked up to 1,300 pounds including fuel. The SpaceIL founders point out that this is still much cheaper and smaller than what a space agency like NASA would build.', "Opher Doron, right, Israel Aerospace Industries's space division general manager, during a final drill in the control room in Yehud before the launch.", 'Kfir Damari, a SpaceIL co-founder. “We didn’t imagine, I think, how much time and effort it would take,” he said.', 'Yonatan Winetraub, who, with Mr. Bash and Mr. Damari, scrounged for the $50,000 entry fee and entered the paperwork within two hours of the Lunar X Prize deadline.', 'Back in November 2010, it was a rush for the SpaceIL founders just to get to the starting line. The Google competition had been announced three years earlier. About 30 teams had already entered, and the deadline for submissions was the end of the year. From friends and family, Mr. Bash, Mr. Damari and Mr. Winetraub scrounged $50,000 for the entry fee, and on Dec. 31, they sent in the money and the paperwork with less than two hours to spare.', 'From the beginning, their pitch was geared to philanthropists, not venture capitalists.', 'As full-fledged development started, Mr. Kahn brought in Eran Privman, who had been an executive at his companies, to run the organization.', 'A few months later, Mr. Kahn returned, replacing Mr. Privman with Ido Anteby, a longtime manager at the Israel Atomic Energy Commission, to shepherd the final construction and testing of Beresheet.', 'Mr. Kahn agreed to provide any remaining money needed.', "Morris Kahn, the company's president.", 'And now SpaceIL is approaching its end in a few months. “A day after, all of us will need to look for a job,” said Eran Shmidt, deputy manager of SpaceIL.', 'Israel Aerospace Industries has signed an agreement with OHB System, a German satellite manufacturer, to compete for the European work, and Mr. Doron said the company is in discussion about collaborating with some of the NASA-selected companies.', 'The SpaceIL founders have largely moved on. Mr. Winetraub is now a graduate student at Stanford, pursuing a doctorate in cancer research. Mr. Bash is chief executive of Flytrex, a company developing drones to deliver consumer goods. Mr. Damari is chief product and strategy officer for Tabookey, a cybersecurity start-up.', 'When they started SpaceIL at the bar, they were all single. “We were in a really different place back then,” Mr. Damari said.', 'On Thursday, he was in Florida to watch the launch with his wife and two children. “I never imagined my big boy is five years old and actually the age he will remember,” Mr. Damari said.', "The mission control room in Yehud during a last drill before Thursday's launch.", 'If No One Owns the Moon, Can Anyone Make Money Up There?', "An earlier version of this article misstated the English name of Mare Serenitatis, the part of the moon where SpaceIL's Beresheet spacecraft will land. It is the Sea of Serenity, not the Sea of Tranquility.", 'Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: Tiny Tyrannosaur Hints at How T. Rex Became King
['The deer-sized dinosaur preceded one of Earth’s most fearsome predators.', 'A new species of dinosaur, a tiny relative of the Tyrannosaurus rex, called Moros intrepidus, lived 96 million years ago and its fossils were found in central Utah.', 'Tyrannosaurs weren’t always tyrants. For millions of years, the ancestors of the regal T. rex were relegated to second-class predator status while a different dinosaur dynasty ruled over what is now North America: towering allosaurs.', 'To better understand how and when tyrannosaurs became giants, paleontologists have sought examples of their lineage from when they were small. Their latest discovery is a tiny tyrannosaur that lived in the shadow of larger predators some 96 million years ago.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'In 2012 while Dr. Zanno was fossil hunting in central Utah, she noticed a dinosaur leg bone sticking out from a rocky hillside. The next year she and her team excavated the fossilized remains. Although the bones were poorly preserved, she could tell by how thin they were that they belonged to a theropod, which is the major group of carnivorous dinosaurs that include allosaurs and tyrannosaurs.', 'The upper leg bones of Moros intrepidus.', 'The next steps were to find whether the tiny tyrannosaur belonged to a new species or was a juvenile of a known species.', 'The fossilized leg bone was sticking out from a hillside in central Utah.', 'Nicholas St. Fleur is a science reporter who writes about archaeology, paleontology, space and other topics. He joined The Times in 2015. Before that, he was an assistant editor at The Atlantic.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Neptune Has a Newly Discovered Moon. What Else Is It Hiding?
['Neptune Has a Newly Discovered Moon. What Else Is It Hiding?', 'Neptune Has a Newly Discovered Moon. What Else Is It Hiding?', 'There is much more to learn about the solar system’s eighth planet, which hasn’t been visited by a spacecraft for 30 years.', 'A recent image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope of the planet Neptune, whose tally of moons has been upped to 14 in a new paper.', 'It’s time to add one more tiny moon to Neptune’s icy family tree. Astronomers using the Hubble Space Telescope have spied a previously undetected satellite around the solar system’s eighth planet, bringing its total number to 14.', 'That’s especially true for Uranus and Neptune, which are known as the ice giants. While every other planet in our solar system has been poked and prodded by multiple spacecraft, these two remain largely unexplored.', 'Mark Showalter, a researcher at the SETI Institute in Mountain View, Calif., did not set out to make this discovery. He was analyzing Neptune’s rings with a new technique to process old images that essentially twisted them while adding them together. That allowed him to better see the rings, which are both faint and quick-moving.', 'On a whim, he decided to apply that same technique to other parts of the image he produced. To his surprise, a tiny white dot appeared.', 'Further analyses have confirmed that it is a moon, and a rather odd one.', 'An image made by the Hubble Space Telescope in 2004, showing Neptune and some of its moons — including Hippocamp — at right. Hippocamp is also shown enlarged in the inset image top right.', 'When Voyager 2 zipped past Neptune in 1989, it revealed a dynamic world with winds that whip and churn through its atmosphere at speeds as high as 1,500 miles per hour. Its blue atmosphere was also marked by a dark blemish nicknamed the Great Dark Spot. And while it was reminiscent of Jupiter’s Red Spot, which has remained intact for hundreds of years, Neptune’s spot vanished roughly five years later. In the years since, other blemishes have come and gone — each a mystery.', 'As are Neptune’s rings and moons. From Earth, the rings appear to clump together into partial rings, or arcs, unseen elsewhere in the solar system and previously thought impossible (any such material in orbit around the planet should stretch into a continuous ring). But Neptune’s arcs persist and astronomers can’t say why.', 'Only a closer look could explain these mysteries.', 'Studying Neptune and Uranus could also have implications for our understanding of thousands of worlds detected in orbit around distant stars.', 'Astronomers, however, think the tide is turning. In a survey produced every 10 years by an expert committee that ranks funding priorities for NASA, a mission to the ice giants was ranked third after missions that would return samples from Mars and visit Jupiter’s moon Europa. Given that scientists have made headway on the first two, a mission to these blue orbs might have good prospects in the near future.', 'It’s the Solar System’s Most Distant Object. Astronomers Named It Farout.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


All the Pink Dresses on the Oscars Red Carpet in One Handy Place
['Julia Roberts, Gemma Chan and Helen Mirren were among many at the Academy Awards clad in pink. Let’s look!', 'Pink, a color famously associated with a generation of people who are no longer young, had a star turn at the Academy Awards tonight!', 'What follows are pictures of people (actors) wearing pink on the red carpet, along with some commentary from people (writers) on Twitter about the #trend.', 'Julia Roberts didn’t show up until the end — when she presented the award for Best Picture — but she wore the color of the night, with heels to match.', 'Helen Mirren, wearing a long-sleeve layered number with accordion pleats, gave us grown-up princess vibes.', "Helen Mirren, you're a dream!", 'We loved the mix of modern prairie-style and toxic Pepto-Bismol pink worn by the illustrious Gemma Chan.', 'Linda Cardellini, another person who heard the call of the fashion gods (who, thus, spake and said: “Wear pink”).', 'Linda Cardellini, wrapped up like a package.', 'Was it all a statement?', 'Marie Kondo, looking sparkly and tidy.', 'Here is more pink, courtesy of Angela Bassett. Bow down.', 'Angela Bassett, a queen in all shades, but especially fuschia.', 'Sarah Paulson’s hot pink cutout dress might ... have ... had ... pockets?', 'Sarah Paulson, glam.', 'Hey, even this couple wore pink!', 'Jason Momoa and Lisa Bonet in dusty pink tones.', 'And here’s Awkwafina with a sparkly pink suit. We love it!', 'Awkwafina, hiiii!', 'But wait there’s more.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


When Will the End of Gender Arrive on the Red Carpet?
['When Will the End of Gender Arrive on the Red Carpet?', 'When Will the End of Gender Arrive on the Red Carpet?', 'With Billy Porter, Elsie Fisher and a few others at the Oscars tonight, the red carpet is only barely starting to discover a fabulous third way to be.', 'The 2019 Oscars red carpets got off to an exciting start early with the arrival of the actor Billy Porter in a flowing Christian Siriano design.', 'Billy Porter, being adjusted on the red carpet.', 'The designer tweeted out video of the gown in action. Then Mr. Porter went off to commentate for ABC with a big sparkly cocktail ring on his finger.', 'Anddddd flip!!', 'Elsie Fisher, the 15-year-old star of the film “Eighth Grade,” showed up in a three-piece suit. This is a daring look — simply because vests are not generally a hot red carpet look. That’s what’s very bold here!', 'Elsie Fisher.', 'It was also something of a surprise that the fashion was so traditional considering Timothée Chalamet and Michael B. Jordan showed up on red carpets earlier this year in harnesses that some found gender-disruptive in a way that no one could quite put their finger on — and in a way that women in suits are not.', 'What is gender? We do not know. Apparently people can wear anything!', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Fashion Review: No Sex, No Politics, No Risk
['Ferragamo and Missoni paid homage to family values. Armani played a rhapsody in blue. Versace celebrated grunge. And then there was Marni.', 'MILAN — The awards red carpet is not the only fashion show that seems to have fallen relatively silent on the subject of #MeToo: the runways, which in recent seasons focused broadly on a redefinition of female empowerment, at least as far as it relates to image, have almost entirely dropped that theme.', 'Instead, they were dominated by — family values! Not of the far-right kind; of the most branded, uncontroversial, personal/company history kind.', 'You can understand it: The past is so much more predictable than the fuzzy danger of whatever is to come. But it doesn’t always make for the most compelling clothes, even if both men and women are walking the runway. Especially when viewed through a sepia-tinged lens.', 'Or one washed in electric aquamarine. See Missoni, where the whole room was bathed in a cerulean light meant to represent a “door that connects different moments in the history of a fashion house,” like a magical wormhole in space and time leading to a moment in the mid-1970s (according to the show notes) when women wore enveloping striped capes, chunky zigzag coats, thin swishy trousers and long metallic sheaths. Also arm warmers, big neck doilies and little rolled-brim beanie caps. And men sported a lot of chevrons.', 'Don’t like the abstracted tiger print in blue, brown and cream that Paul Surridge created at Roberto Cavalli (which might have looked like sine waves or topographic lines if you didn’t know the house’s history)? Here it is in black and white. Or in pastels. You can have it as a high/low dress or a suit or a long-sleeved turtleneck and pleated midi skirt. Or you can forget all about it and try on a python tailcoat. Or a white tux.', 'At least at his own dual gender show, Giorgio Armani went all-in for one idea. That the idea happened to be (drumroll, please) blue! somewhat lessened its impact, but give him credit for stick-to-it-ness.', 'There were neat black jackets, with a slim squiggle of blue running down the center, over jodhpur pants. Trapeze swings of black and blue with rosettes encrusted around the hem. Glossy black velvet and one-shouldered beaded tops. More jodhpurs. More variations on the theme in minutely detailed bows and swirls and swags. Assorted tuxes. It was all very 50 shades of classic Armani, the executive kind.', 'While at Versace, it was very grunge, the defanged kind.', 'Which is why it was something of a relief to discover that Stella Jean, the most convincing of all the New Gen designers in Milan, had the courage to take an old trope — Le Grand Tour — and break out of its Eurocentric mold. She reimagined it as an experience that included Africa and Polynesia, with establishment silks and stripes and Gauguin references; red leather giraffes roaming across a field of python-print jersey.', 'And that, at Marni, Francesco Risso had eschewed decade-hopping and heritage-referencing to actually dare to delve into the scary subject: eroticism.', 'Indecipherable? So, kind of, was the collection, which was full of contradictory impulses and a frenetic undone-ness: slithery red and white and black pajama silks and nightgowns, sliced-up suiting, pixelated prints; and connected in odd ways by rows of rings and chain link harnesses, twists and turns.', 'Sometimes the contortions were hard to follow. But at least he is trying for something new, trying to figure out where we go from here. Trying to give women (he has not combined his collections) a new, as opposed to old, way to express themselves.', 'That’s what has been missing from Milan most of the week: that kind of ambition, that kind of willingness to take risks. So you stumble. So what? That’s how we fall into the future. And when we do, we need something to wear.', "Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The San Vicente Bungalows: Hollywood’s New Clubhouse
['Jeff Klein’s latest hotel project protects celebrities and power brokers with a ban on cameraphones.', 'Throwing shade: Privacy is the primary luxury of the space, a former druggie motel.', 'WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. — The problem with stardom, most any star will tell you, is you can’t turn it off anymore. Certain protocols used to apply when it came to sightings of famous folk in public. But that was in the bygone days of the Brown Derby or Chasen’s, about a billion “creepshots” ago.', 'Now, of course, it is next to impossible for people like Jennifer Aniston or Justin Timberlake to do the boringly normal stuff the rest of us take for granted. And that realization was at the core of an idea the hotelier Jeffrey Klein had for a personal second act.', 'After more than a decade operating the celebrity petting zoo that is Sunset Tower Hotel and its now-storied Tower Bar, Mr. Klein understood better than most that the one craving that famous people cannot satisfy is to get their anonymity back.', 'It has been 15 years since Mr. Klein and his partners paid $18 million for the Sunset Tower, a faded Art Deco relic on a stretch of Sunset Strip that, although now booming, had fallen into funky desuetude. Against most odds and all prevailing wisdom, he soon established it and its Tower Bar restaurant as essential landmarks of the new Hollywood.', 'The Tower Bar, in particular, quickly evolved into the preferred watering hole of studio moguls, literary agents, fashion designers, power brokers and A-list movie stars, who prized Mr. Klein’s ability to reconcile the paradox that the famous experience the same giddiness we all do when exposed to others of their kind. Unlike ordinary mortals, though, they also yearn to recapture the privacy whose loss is the price tag of modern celebrity.', 'Jeff Klein at the entrance of his new venture.', 'Instead Mr. Klein pursued a challenge equal to that first presented by the Sunset Tower. “I like dumps, and I like places with ghosts,” he said. Both, as it happened, were to be found under his nose at a druggie, clothing-optional motel complex blocks away from Sunset Tower in West Hollywood, a cluster of bungalows erected in the late 19th century as housing for workers laying railway lines to the coast.', 'Not everyone would have detected in this collection of listing frame structures the potential for a private club that would make getting into Tower Bar seem almost as easy as grabbing a booth at IHOP.', 'But Mr. Klein had long nurtured a dream of recreating in Los Angeles a members-only gathering place on the order of Annabel’s, a London nightclub founded in 1963 in what had been a coal cellar by the aristocratic British entrepreneur Mark Birley and distinguished by a clientele that, over the years, included royals and Frank Sinatra, Aristotle Onassis and Kate Moss.', 'Not coincidentally, this interest coincided with a growing trend in Los Angeles, as elsewhere, for people to come together in upscale public settings not unlike social versions of a gated community.', 'Clubs are far from new in Los Angeles, of course, their long history likely beginning with the “gentlemen-only” California Club, which opened over a livery stable in 1887, followed eight years later with establishment of the staid Jonathan Club, whose headquarters still occupy almost a block of prime real estate in the city’s downtown (with another outpost on an unrivaled stretch of beach in Santa Monica).', 'Dimitri Dimitrov, Mr. Klein’s right hand man, surrounded by staff at a pre-meal meeting in the main dining room of the San Vicente Bungalows.', 'But it was Soho House that jolted the social landscape of Los Angeles with its opening nearly 10 years ago in a glass-box building along Sunset Boulevard just shy of Beverly Hills.', 'That perspective shifted, Mr. Klein said, when membership in Soho House boomed and the agents, actors, producers, publicists and studio executives that had long patronized his restaurant and hotel began clamoring to get in. “It pricked up my ears to see how successful it was," Mr. Klein said.', 'Rather than a membership roster drawn from a relatively broad swath of the local population, however, Mr. Klein envisioned for the San Vicente Bungalows a more tightly edited group of those representing the ecosystem he knows best: one composed principally of apex predators.', 'It was a chilly afternoon and Mr. Klein, 48, was seated in the forecourt of his new nine-bungalow complex dressed in a tan Boglioli blazer, a Brunello Cucinelli button-down and a rumpled pair of Acne jeans. The San Vicente club was fresh from a six-year renovation estimated to have cost $50 million — nearly $2 million of it allocated for gardens in which transplanted, century-old California pepper trees now shade lattice walls of espaliered kumquats — and there were glitches.', 'Crisp uniforms at the "SVB," as it will perhaps be known.', 'The power was dead in three electrical sockets in the club’s cozy living room, where the screenwriter Robert Harling (“Steel Magnolias”) sat in a corner tapping on an iPad. Vintage glass candy jars of peanut M&Ms were arranged on a console, but not precisely to Mr. Klein’s liking. A waitress attired in an aproned uniform from Mercatores, a Milanese livery shop, had set a lunch table backward, knife to the left and fork on the right.', 'Though by his own admission a “control freak,” Mr. Klein’s public face is one of affability and disarming bonhomie; he is perhaps unique as a businessman in his deployment of “I love you” as an all-purpose term of greeting and farewell.', 'Aaaah! Sink into the aquamarine screening-room chairs.', 'The napkins recall the colors at the Beverly Hills hotel.', 'Glance around, though, and no street artists are to be found. There is, however, Mr. Dimitrov — who followed Mr. Klein here from the Tower Bar, his ostentatious hospitableness intact though his striped suits traded for knit Armani blazers and sneakers from Comme des Garçons — escorting Lorne Michaels to a table in the candlelit dining room.', 'In its design, the club’s interior courtyard allows for clear sightlines on almost every entrance and exit. And here, in fact, much like Tracy Lord skipping down the front steps of her Main Line mansion in “The Philadelphia Story” comes Hannah Bronfman, the D.J. heiress, descending from one of the club’s nine private bedrooms to duck beneath a bower of pink bougainvillea. And there, hunched with a script in a rattan cafe chair, sits Armie Hammer. And here is John Mayer, feet shod in Visvims and propped on a coffee table.', 'While elsewhere in town, van loads of tourists are being carted around to view houses once inhabited by movie stars gone and long forgotten, at San Vicente Bungalows the live ones disport themselves.', "No 'Gramming at the inn: A staffer applies a sticker to a cameraphone.", 'As if to underscore that notion, members and guests at the club sign a code-of-conduct contract upon entry and surrender their phones to desk attendants dressed in piped rowing blazers. The phones are returned to them, of course, but only after the camera lens has been covered with a sticker bearing the logo of the club.', 'In Mr. Klein’s world, the paparazzi that routinely bribe servers and slip weekly updated price lists to parking valets for celebrity tipoffs may be a necessary evil. Instagram is the enemy. “We live in this connected world where no one is really connected,” he said, adding that if his experience at Sunset Tower alerted him to anything it was a need to create a “safe zone” for those people whose faces beam out at us from the covers of the tabloids.', "What is never in short supply is the hypnotic pull those on the inside exert on the rest of us and the sense that life would far better if you could only join the club. And that is Mr. Klein's fundamental proposition at both the Tower Bar and his San Vicente Bungalows.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Bill Jenkins, Who Tried to Halt Tuskegee Syphilis Study, Dies at 73
['Bill Jenkins in 1997. He denounced the government’s unethical Tuskegee syphilis experiment aimed at black men, and spent his career working against injustice in health care.', 'Bill Jenkins, a government epidemiologist who tried to expose the unethical Tuskegee syphilis study in the 1960s and devoted the rest of his career to fighting racism in health care, died on Feb. 17 in Charleston, S.C. He was 73.', 'His wife, Dr. Diane Rowley, said the cause was complications of sarcoidosis, an inflammatory disease.', 'Dr. Jenkins was working as a statistician at the United States Public Health Service in Washington in the 1960s when he first learned of the infamous Tuskegee study. In that study, the federal government deceived hundreds of black men in Macon County, Ala., where Tuskegee is the county seat, into thinking that their so-called “bad blood” — they weren’t told that they had syphilis — was being treated when it wasn’t.', 'The researchers had wanted to see what unchecked syphilis would do to the human body and used these men as guinea pigs, without their informed consent.', 'The disease, which is usually transmitted by sexual contact and can cause brain damage, paralysis, blindness and death, ran its course in several of the men. Some infected their wives, who passed it on to some of their children. The study lasted from 1932 to 1972.', 'A colleague told Dr. Jenkins about the study while it was still going on, but not in much detail. Dr. Jenkins did some research and found dozens of articles about it in medical journals, so he understood that it was not being done in secret. Even local chapters of the American Medical Association supported it.', 'Still, he was troubled by the ethics of the situation and spoke to his supervisor.', 'Dr. Jenkins, who was black, and some colleagues wrote an article about it and sent it to other African-American doctors and to a few reporters. But Dr. Rowley, his wife, said he did not include any background or explanatory information, and the news media did not pick it up.', 'Eventually, another health service epidemiologist, Peter Buxtun, gave the information to The Associated Press. The A.P. article appeared on the front page of The New York Times and elsewhere and shocked the nation. The study was soon halted.', 'For Dr. Jenkins, the Tuskegee study confirmed what he had long believed — that medical research was biased against people of color and that this study was just the tip of the iceberg.', 'It would change his life. He would go on to devote himself to trying to reduce disease and illness among African Americans and other people of color, in part by recruiting more such people into the public health professions.', 'He was one of the first researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to recognize how dramatically AIDS was affecting black men. He helped organize the first conference on AIDS in underserved neighborhoods and became the C.D.C.’s director of AIDS prevention for minorities.', 'And for 10 years he oversaw the government’s Participants Health Benefits Program, which provides free lifetime medical care to the men of the Tuskegee study and their eligible family members.', 'A doctor in Tuskegee, Ala., drew blood from a subject of the government’s experiment on black men to determine what happens when syphilis is left untreated. The men were deceived into thinking that they were being treated.', 'Susan Reverby, author of “Examining Tuskegee: The Infamous Syphilis Study and Its Legacy” (2009), said in a telephone interview that Dr. Jenkins had successfully fought to expand the benefits for survivors and their families, insuring that health care, like nursing homes, would be covered in addition to medical care.', 'The apology is commemorated every year at the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University; the government paid for the center as part of the apology, and Dr. Jenkins helped establish it.', 'William Carter Jenkins was born on July 26, 1945, in Mt. Pleasant, S.C. His father, Albert Daniel Jenkins, was a funeral home director and restaurant owner; his mother, Martha (Wilson) Jenkins, was a schoolteacher.', 'He graduated from historically black Morehouse College with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics in 1967. He went to work for the National Center for Health Statistics, a division of the public health service, and became one of the first black commissioned officers in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.', 'After the Tuskegee study was exposed, he was determined to make more of a difference in the world and decided he needed more training. He earned his master’s of science degree in biostatistics in 1974 at Georgetown University. He was awarded a second master’s, in public health, in 1977 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he went on to earn a doctorate in epidemiology in 1983.', 'He married Dr. Rowley that year. They had met at the C.D.C., where they were both epidemiologists. In addition to his wife, Dr. Jenkins is survived by their daughter, Danielle Rowley-Jenkins. His brother, Dr. Albert Daniel Jenkins Jr., died in 2006.', 'Dr. Rowley said her husband had always been an activist. In high school, he had registered people to vote. In college, he was a foot soldier in the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. He was jailed, along with the future Georgia congressman John Lewis and others, for protesting the whites-only restaurant owned by Lester Maddox, a segregationist and future governor of Georgia.', 'And while he was at the public health service, he helped start an underground newspaper, The Drum, directed at employees who felt they were experiencing racism in their work or witnessing it.', 'Later in his career, Dr. Jenkins founded the Society for the Analysis of African American Public Health Issues, which is dedicated to eliminating health inequities among the races.', 'But it was the Tuskegee study that would define his life’s work.', 'An earlier version of this obituary misspelled the given name of the director of the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University. He is Dr. Rueben Warren, not Reuben.', 'It also misspelled the surname of an epidemiologist who gave information about the Tuskegee syphilis study to The Associated Press. He is Peter Buxtun, not Buxton.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Humpback Whale Washes Ashore in Amazon River, Baffling Scientists in Brazil
['A young humpback whale was found dead on Friday on an island near the mouth of the Amazon River in Brazil. Scientists are investigating how it died and why it was so far from where they migrate this time of the year.', 'Marine biologists in Brazil were stunned to discover a young humpback whale on Friday that had washed ashore on a remote, forested island in the Amazon River, at a time of the year when it should have already migrated thousands of miles to Antarctica.', 'Biologists examined the carcass over the weekend during low tide, looking for signs of how the whale might have died, and took samples for a necropsy, the group said. The whale, while about half the length of a full-grown humpback, was too large and in too remote an area to be entirely removed.', 'Ms. Emin told G1 that the group hypothesized that the young whale got detached from its mother before it died.', 'Humpbacks travel great distances every year, slowly migrating to and from the poles. Those in the Northern Hemisphere migrate this time of year to tropical waters before returning north in the summer. In the Southern Hemisphere, they migrate south during this time of year and return north during their winter, in the breeding season.', 'Ms. Emin said her group was examining the whale to try to determine its cause of death.', 'Ms. Emin did not respond to an email seeking comment.', 'Barbara Marcolini contributed reporting.', 'These Whales Are Serenaders of the Seas. It’s Quite a Racket.', 'New York’s Whales Love Bunker. So Do Fishing Boats. Conflict Ensues.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Seven Black Inventors Whose Patents Helped Shape American Life
['U.S.', 'U.S.', 'Garrett Morgan created an improved gas mask. Marie Van Brittan Brown patented a home security system. Lonnie Johnson dreamed up the Super Soaker.', 'Garrett A. Morgan, born to former slaves in the post-bellum South, designed an improved gas mask.', 'Mr. Morgan after putting his invention into practice in 1916, when he helped rescue injured workers from a tunnel after an explosion under Lake Erie.', 'Black inventors’ paths to securing a patent in the United States have historically been jammed with obstacles.', 'Black Americans had limited opportunities to receive technical training, Mr. Fouché wrote. And professional organizations that were often vital for making business connections did not allow black people in their ranks.', 'Still, many black inventors have overcome these obstacles to secure their own patents — though the marketing of those products brought further challenges. With Black History Month nearing its end, we looked back at seven such innovators.', 'Garrett A. Morgan’s patent application for his gas mask included an illustration of a man breathing through tubes that dangle low to the ground, where smoke is less likely to linger.', 'Born in the 1870s to former slaves in the post-bellum South, Garrett A. Morgan had only six years of formal education.', 'In the late 1960s, Marie Van Brittan Brown, who worked as a nurse, patented a invention that became a technological precursor to the modern home security system.', 'Lonnie G. Johnson created the design for what would one day be called the Super Soaker. Sales for the toy reached $200 million in 1992.', 'Mary Beatrice Kenner designed this sanitary belt in an effort to help women manage their periods. The belt could be adjusted to fit women of different sizes.', 'Before there were tampon commercials promising an easier period, there was Mary Beatrice Kenner, an inventor who wanted to make old-fashioned sanitary belts more comfortable for women.', 'Dr. Charles R. Drew created a device that could preserve donated blood for transfusions. He patented the invention during World War II, a time when there was a desperate need for blood donations.', 'Dr. Patricia Bath, who invented a more efficient way to remove cataracts, in 2017. In the 1980s, she discovered how to use a laser to correct the condition.', 'When Dr. Patricia Bath had her “eureka” moment with a tool to fix cataracts in the 1980s, her supervisor was skeptical. By that point, she was used to being treated differently from her male counterparts in ophthalmology.', 'Dr. Weatherby’s yellow detergent used nonstaining dyes that could maintain their color when in the presence of chlorine bleach, serving as the basis for the famous lemon-scented Cascade detergent.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


On Location: For an Atlanta Home of a Certain Age, a Design With Patina
['The developer of the midcentury-modern Dewberry hotel in Charleston, S.C., creates an apartment with an eye to an earlier century.', 'John Dewberry, who collaborated with the architecture and design firm Workstead on the Dewberry’s interiors, likes modernism well enough. But he is more interested in creating spaces that appear true to their context.', 'John Dewberry, the developer behind the Dewberry hotel in Charleston, S.C., bought and renovated an apartment in the 1924 neo-Classical Reid House in Atlanta with his wife, Jaimie Brown Dewberry.', 'Reid House was designed by Philip T. Shutze, of the architecture firm Hentz, Reid & Adler.', 'The couple was impressed with the intimately scaled architecture of the apartment, which included a series of smaller rooms for specific functions, including a formal dining room, a study and a sunroom, rather than the wide-open spaces seen in more contemporary homes. So they left the walls as they found them.', 'The dated kitchen and bathrooms weren’t quite so charming, so they gutted those spaces. The new kitchen has stainless-steel base cabinets, shelves made with wood reclaimed from an old Georgia icehouse, and walls and counters of Vermont Danby marble. The master bathroom has more Danby marble and the claw-foot soaking tub that came with it.', 'Mr. Dewberry insisted that they paint the walls gray, to create a feeling of coziness. But rather than choosing just one shade, they chose seven, using them in different rooms. They also added velvet and damask curtains, some of them finished with Samuel and Sons trim.', 'The living room has custom-made lounge chairs, vintage 1960s studded brass trunks used as end tables and a 1970s bronze mirror by Guy Lefevre. The James chandelier is by Robert Long Lighting (from $3,500).', 'To complete the décor, the couple collected furniture and art during their travels, from an 18th-century Hepplewhite sideboard found in Charlottesville, Va., to a vintage Turkish rug bought in the south of France. They added those to pieces Mr. Dewberry already owned, including a 19th-century mahogany dining table.', 'They completed the renovation in phases, and continued to use the apartment as construction progressed. By the time they were finished, in 2016, they had spent about $700,000, including the furniture and art.', 'The resulting design mixes traditional and contemporary elements to create a home that honors the past, but isn’t stuck in it.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Meet the Italian Makers of Luxury
['Crafted Society, an Amsterdam-based start-up, wants to give artisans their moment in the limelight.', 'Martin Johnston and Lise Bonnet, the co-founders of The Crafted Society, in their showroom in Amsterdam. Mr. Johnston is British and Ms. Bonnet, Dutch.', 'AMSTERDAM — The Milan collections have drawn to an end. Alessandro Michele of Gucci, bearded and bejeweled, has taken his runway bow. So has Miuccia Prada and Donatella Versace and Daniel Lee, the new name at Bottega Veneta.', 'We are long used to applauding designers at the end of a season. But behind them is a plethora of generally unheralded artisans who also power the “Made in Italy” brand, creating everything from knits to sneakers. Now, one nascent company is aiming to place that talent firmly in the spotlight.', 'That, however, gave them a new idea.', "The Amsterdam neighborhood where the couple's store is located.", 'Marco Cini, left, who makes luxury textiles, and the artist Roger Selden.', 'Sneakers at the Crafted Society’s showroom.', 'The partnerships that Crafted Society has been building, he said, could also tackle a broader crisis weighing on the future of Italian luxury manufacturing: the struggle to find the next generation of artisans.', 'An earlier version of this article misstated the lowest price of Panama hats. They are 125 euros, not 175 euros.', 'Elizabeth Paton is a reporter for the Styles section, covering the fashion and luxury sectors in Europe. Before joining The Times in 2015, she was a reporter at the Financial Times both in London and New York.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Scene City: Inside the Governors Ball, the Official Oscars After-Party
['Rami Malek, Lady Gaga, Regina King, Alfonso Cuarón and other winners get their trophies engraved.', 'If the Academy Awards are the peak expression of American culture, perhaps it’s fitting they’re held in a mall. After the ceremony at the Dolby Theater, guests ascended five levels via escalator, across from stores like Victoria’s Secret and Dave & Buster’s, to the Ray Dolby Ballroom.', 'Did Freddie ever mention who he wanted to portray him in the Hollywood version of his life?', 'Mr. May thought for a moment. “Burt Reynolds,” he said.', 'About last night!', 'All the looks from Hollywood’s biggest night.', 'Because of their work for “Black Panther,” Beachler and Carter became the first African-American women to win Oscars in a nonacting category since the 1980s.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Best and Worst Moments of the 2019 Oscars
['A more diverse winners’ list, a best-picture blunder, a joyous victory and misbegotten acceptance — these were the highs and lows as we saw them.', 'Only 3 black women have won Oscars for anything other than acting. 2 of them just happened tonight.', 'Sign up to the Watching newsletter for recommendations on what to watch straight to your inbox.', 'Glenn Close on the red carpet.', 'Maya Rudolph, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler onstage.', 'Awkwafina and John Mulaney presenting awards.', 'Kevin Hart, center, in a clip from “Night School” that was part of a montage at the Oscars.', 'Won’t You Be My Neighbor?', 'Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper performing their duet.', 'The “Vice” winners with their Oscars.', 'What ‘Green Book’ Says About the Academy. Our Critics on the Oscars.', 'Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


In Milan, Men Win Supporting Roles
['The women’s shows, from Gucci to Roberto Cavalli, had a coed feel this season.', 'Gucci, fall 2019.', 'You couldn’t fairly say that they dominated it. The women on the runways, with their stern, set expressions, stalking in their fearsome heels (this was a week to remind you that our word “stiletto” derives from the Italian for “little dagger”), were too powerful and too numerous for that. It was more like a Sadie Hawkins Day, and women’s wear, with the power all on its side, had invited the men to the dance.', 'The reasons are easy enough to guess. While it remains, at least for the moment, a smaller part of the business than women’s wear, men’s wear has been growing explosively in recent years. And the heads of luxury brands have noticed the change with evident pleasure.', 'Presenting a unified collection while saving costs is a powerful draw, especially at a moment when fashion shows are as much a public entertainment as an industry invitational, and wherever and whenever they occur, they are ultimately destined to live where we increasingly all do: online.', 'For the designers and creators in Milan, the argument was more frequently one of creativity and coherence than commerce. Angela Missoni, who runs her family’s namesake knitwear label, invoked, in her own fashion, the old wisdom about measuring twice to cut once.', 'Clarity was the virtue cited as well by Paul Andrew of Salvatore Ferragamo, who was elevated last week from women’s creative director to creative director of the entire brand, men’s and women’s alike.', 'So it was that Mr. Armani’s ponytailed gentlemen, in their check suits and blue-on-black formal wear, gave the sense of being mere walkers to his women. Which was almost a shame, when you recalled that Mr. Armani, who started his label decades ago with men’s wear, revolutionized women’s wear by dappling it with the style and shape from the other side of that divide.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Shaped by Mérida’s Artistic Soul
['Plantel Matilde, an arts center rising in the jungle was conceived by Javier Marin, the Mexico City sculptor, and serves as a campus for international art students and local schoolchildren as well as studio and exhibition space for the artist..', 'The capital of the Yucatán attracts creative types from around Mexico and across many borders, drawn by its Mayan and colonial heritage and, for some, its path to the future.', 'Plantel Matilde, an arts center rising in the jungle was conceived by Javier Marin, the Mexico City sculptor, and serves as a campus for international art students and local schoolchildren as well as studio and exhibition space for the artist..', 'An elegant blonde woman in slacks drifted over to the table to say hello to David — Elena, he explained, a fashion designer from Milan. A few minutes later a tanned couple, the husband leaning on a cane as a result of a riding accident, dropped by — Ralf and Yvonne, the Germans who run the Yucatán Polo Club. After lunch we stopped at Ki’Xocolatl — the chocolate store next to the restaurant run by two Belgians — and bumped into Carmen, a painter from Mexico City, and Marcela, a Yucatecan artist who got out her phone to show me pictures of the sculptures she makes from sisal fiber.', 'Apoala, a Mexican-fusion restaurant in Mérida, is a great place for people watching.', 'The Catedral de San Ildefonso is evidence of a Roman influence in Mérida’s past.', 'The interior of the Catedral.', 'The heat — or maybe it was the food — was having the opposite effect on me. But our Uber driver, Israel, a Yucatecan of Lebanese descent, cranked up the AC in his Dodge Neon. The radio was also rousing: Israel blasted KIIS FM (“You’re the One That I Want”) as he negotiated the narrow streets lined with tall colonial houses in sherbet colors back to David’s place.', "The Paseo de Montejo, Mérida's main artery, is lined with mansions once owned by 18th- and 19th-century millionaires.", 'On cue, Israel had turned up the Paseo de Montejo, the city’s main artery, and suddenly we were surrounded by palm-shaded mansions in the Beaux-Arts style — the trophy homes of the 18th- and 19th-century millionaires who made their fortunes producing henequen (or sisal) from the agave plant. The rich Yucatecans rejected Hispanic culture in favor of all things French, and Paseo de Montejo bears more than a passing resemblance to a street in old New Orleans, which happens to be a sister city.', 'The pale blue exterior of the 200-year-old house in the Santiago barrio that David and his partner, Robert Willson, bought a few years ago is reserved, almost anonymous. Inside it looks the way you might imagine a casa restored by two guys who used to run one of Los Angeles’s premier design showrooms would look. There are 20-foot beamed ceilings and boldly patterned concrete tile floors, terra cotta sphinxes and French chairs made of steel and twine. The lush scent of plumeria wafts from the courtyard, where a Piranesi-inspired mural overlooks a turquoise pool.', 'Casa Lecanda, two blocks from Paseo de Montejo, is one of the fancier  places to stay in Mérida.', 'I repaired to my guest room, settling in for a siesta on the steel canopy bed. An Olivia Newton-John/John Travolta ear worm had worked its way into my head, but at some point I dozed off. When I awoke my room was dark, and rain pelted the roof — a steady, cooling volley punctuated by rumbling thunder.', 'Luckily Israel’s musical tastes were varied. The next morning, he was playing Mexican techno. In a light drizzle we set off for the ruins of Uxmal, a Maya city 50 miles south of Mérida, known for its ornate Puuc-style architecture and its fine state of preservation.', 'Uxmal, population 20,000, give or take, was founded about 500 AD by Chac Uitzil Hun, I learned from my guide, Fabio, a Yucatecan with a mouth full of gold and a wicked sense of humor. We made our way around the Pyramid of the Magician, the site’s tallest structure, to the grass-covered Ballcourt. Competitions here generally concluded with a human sacrifice, Fabio said, doing a little pantomime of the victor having his heart ripped out and offered to the gods, his gold teeth sparking in the mist.', 'The massive mosaic facade of the Governor’s Palace has 103 masks of the rain god Chac.', 'The restaurant Tatemar is in Plaza La Isla, a newly opened 180-store mall in the suburbs recently built north of Mérida.', 'Traditional Yucatecan cuisine, on the other hand, weds Mayan ingredients (corn, chilis, pumpkin) with culinary contributions from Spain (pork, lard, Seville orange) and other parts of Europe. Mr. Tower, the chef, who has lived in Mérida for the last decade, haunts the city’s food stalls for fried pork belly and other Yucatecan staples. Gringos who want to master time-honored recipes like pavo en relleno negro (roasted turkey in charred chili sauce) can take classes at Los Dos, the cooking school founded by David Sterling.', 'Tatemar serves Oaxacan-flavored dishes like octopus with maize purée and pork and shrimp tacos.', 'When we left the mall the sun was sinking below a stand of tamarind trees. Suddenly there was an explosion of bird chatter — the evening song of blackbirds known locally as X’Kau — a reminder that, for all the golf courses and Porsche dealerships, we were still in the jungle.', 'The Centro Cultural La Cupula, a sprawling garden-linked complex, hosts music, dance and theater performances, as well as exhibitions.', 'We had been asked to lunch at the country hacienda of Laura Kirar, the designer, and her husband, Richard Frazier. So we picked up a roasted chicken at a roadside stand, and Israel navigated a series of narrow village roads lined with shacks in taffy colors and teeming with mototaxis, pedestrians and dogs that seemed oblivious to both.', 'The Hacienda Subin, a crumbling 18th- and 19th-century Moorish-style compound on 40 acres in the jungle, is being painstakingly restored.', 'Dozens of the sisal haciendas outside Mérida have been renovated as resorts. One of the newest and poshest is the Chablé Resort and Spa, in Chocholá — 38 modern casitas, each with its own pool and hammock, on the jungled grounds of the former henequen estate Hacienda San Antonio Chablé. As for Hacienda Subin, Richard and Laura are rehabbing its factory building as a multipurpose space for community events.', 'One of the newest resorts is the Chablé Resort and Spa, in Chocholá,  which has 38 modern casitas, each with its own pool and hammock.', 'Expat colonies can be insular, but Mérida’s outlanders are establishing deep roots here. On our way back to the city we stopped at Plantel Matilde, a 39,000-square-foot arts center rising like a modern acropolis in the middle of the jungle. Conceived by the Mexico City sculptor Javier Marin, Matilde serves as a campus for international art students and local schoolchildren as well as a studio and exhibition space for the artist.', 'After a full day my host had planned a casual dinner back in town. But this was Mérida: the meal, at a simple cantina called Catrin, was a long, festive, Mezcal-fueled affair. Richard and Laura showed up, as did Marcela, the sisal sculptor. There was Jason, an artist from Chicago, and Kate, from Poland, who did hair, and Ross, from New York, who works in real estate.', 'We passed around platters of cactus salad and vegetarian flautas and empanadas. The conversation returned to Mérida’s recent growth. Not everyone shared David’s and Carlos’s enthusiasm for the changes. Jason groused about the traffic and noise. Ross said the Levi’s plant was polluting the water with toxic dyes.', 'Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


NASA Renames Facility After Katherine Johnson of ‘Hidden Figures’ Fame
['Katherine Johnson, left, and Christine Darden, two of the first African-American women to work as mathematicians at NASA. The agency named a facility in Ms. Johnson’s honor on Friday.', 'The 2016 film, based on a book released earlier that year, depicted the struggle of Ms. Johnson and other black women for equality at NASA during the height of the space age and segregation. The mathematician tracked the trajectories of crucial missions in the 1960s.', 'President Trump signed the measure to rename the facility after Ms. Johnson in December after Congress passed a bill introduced by Senator Capito to do so, according to a NASA spokeswoman.', 'NASA’s Katherine Johnson Independent Verification and Validation Facility in Fairmont, W.Va. The program housed at the facility monitors the software used to track high-profile NASA missions.', 'Ms. Johnson was not always respected. Called “colored computers,” she and other black women who worked in NASA’s computing pool more than a half-century ago were separated from their white colleagues while they calculated trajectories for the Apollo missions and other programs. Ms. Johnson tracked the orbits of certain major missions, including Alan Shepard’s Freedom 7 in 1961 and John Glenn’s Friendship 7 in 1962, the agency said.', 'Ms. Hylick said that her mother was living comfortably and was humbled by the recognition. She added that she hoped the dedication would inspire others in the future, beyond Black History Month.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Pinterest Restricts Vaccine Search Results to Curb Spread of Misinformation
['Opponents of a bill that would stop parents from opting out their school-aged children from a vaccine in Washington State. Companies such as Pinterest and Facebook have faced pressure to curb inaccuracies promoted by anti-vaccination groups.', 'Pinterest, a digital platform popular with parents, took an unusual step to crack down on the proliferation of anti-vaccination propaganda: It purposefully hobbled its search box.', 'Type “vaccine” into its search bar and nothing pops up. “Vaccination” or “anti-vax”? Also nothing.', 'Pinterest, which allows people to save pictures on virtual pinboards, is often used to find recipes for picky toddlers, baby shower décor or fashion trends, but it has also become a platform for anti-vaccination activists who spread misinformation on social media.', 'Other platforms like Facebook and YouTube have also been infiltrated with misinformation about vaccines, and are taking steps to combat it. One of YouTube’s policies is to demonetize anti-vaccine videos.', 'The changes, which were not publicly announced, started in September and October.', 'Opposition to vaccinations can be traced to the introduction of the first vaccine in the 18th century. Over time most people accepted vaccines, and diseases that could be prevented by them declined. They declined so much, in fact, that the success of vaccines may have muted the dangers associated with those diseases.', 'There are several reasons for vaccine hesitancy: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, fears about a debunked link to autism and lack of knowledge about immunizations.', 'YouTube said on Thursday that it started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and that its algorithmic changes would become more accurate over time.', 'YouTube also said it does not permit anti-vaccine videos to show ads.', 'The company said it was considering reducing or removing this type of content from recommendations and demoting it in search results.', 'Dr. Poland, an internist who has spent 35 years in the vaccine field, said he often encountered patients who relied on social media when researching health questions.', 'For all of these companies, containing the spread of misinformation, particularly about something as emotionally charged as vaccines, will be a lasting challenge as they balance fears about censorship with the need to promote useful content, experts said.', 'Why Don’t We Have Vaccines Against Everything?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


UnitedHealth Loses Case to the Health Venture Begun by Amazon, Berkshire-Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase
['UnitedHealth’s main argument was that the venture formed by Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase was a competitor.', 'A federal judge in Boston denied UnitedHealth’s request to have the executive, David William Smith, immediately stop working. Mr. Smith was an executive at Optum, a unit of UnitedHealth, and it accused him of taking corporate secrets to what it claimed was a competitor. Mr. Smith has denied any wrongdoing.', 'In its court filings, UnitedHealth argued that Mr. Smith’s role at Optum made him privy to sensitive information about its plans. Among Optum’s businesses is one of the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit managers, which serve as intermediaries between drug makers and employers that purchase medicine for their workers.', 'The industry has been sharply criticized for a lack of transparency in how pharmacy benefits managers operate, and Optum’s two main rivals recently merged with two large insurers, Aetna and Cigna.', 'While Judge Mark L. Wolf ruled against it, Optum emphasized that the issues remain unresolved and would need to be settled in arbitration. “We are committed to protecting our confidential information and will aggressively do so in arbitration,” said Matt Stearns, a spokesman for Optum, in an emailed statement.', 'A spokeswoman for the new venture, referred to as “A.B.C.” or “A.B.J.” in court papers, declined to comment. Unlike court proceedings, the arbitration sessions would not be public.', 'Dr. Atul Gawande, a high-profile physician who writes for The New Yorker.', 'The court proceedings also underscored just how unhappy customers — particularly these three employers — are with the status quo.', 'The three employers combined are spending about $4 billion a year on the roughly one million people they cover. But employees “have a poor experience,” Mr. Stoddard said.', 'The venture, which has no name and fewer than 20 employees, plans to tackle several areas, including how benefits are provided through traditional health insurance plans, Mr. Stoddard said. High deductibles, which force employees to pay for significant amounts of their care before their insurance kicks in, are a hardship for “fulfillment-center workers and call-center workers,” he said.', 'The companies also want to see if they can lower the cost of drugs for chronic conditions. In his testimony, Mr. Stoddard insisted that the new venture had no plans to enter the pharmacy business but wanted to better understand the process and the actual cost of drugs.', 'The employers also want to make it easier for workers to see a doctor, Mr. Stoddard testified. Because Optum also operates a large network of primary-care doctors, the venture might want to work with Optum to provide employees with easier access to physicians.', 'Like other large employers, the companies also want to see if they can make better use of doctor and hospital data and identify where employees can go for better care at lower prices.', 'The venture plans to conduct a series of experiments to test new approaches for smaller groups of employees with various partners, including Optum, Mr. Stoddard said.', 'But while Mr. Stoddard would not rule out the possibility that the venture could be a competitor, he emphasized that it had a different purpose. Unlike Optum, which he described as trying to “maximize profits,” the new organization is “trying to create value for families who are trying to use the health care system,” he said.', 'Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Virgin Galactic Rocket Plane Reaches Edge of Space
['U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trump Administration Blocks Funds for Planned Parenthood and Others Over Abortion Referrals
['The new rule would steer federal family planning funds under Title X to anti-abortion and faith based groups.', 'An abortion rights supporter in Metairie, La.', 'The new federal rule is almost certain to be challenged in court. Clinics will be able to talk to patients about abortion, but not where they can get one. And clinics will no longer have to counsel women on all reproductive options, including abortion, a change that will make anti-abortion providers eligible for funding.', 'The rule, which has been expected for months, is the most recent step by the Trump administration to shift the direction of federal health programs in a conservative direction. The administration has expanded the ability of employers to claim religious or moral objections to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that they offer employees insurance coverage for contraception. It has channeled funding for teen pregnancy prevention programs and family planning grants into programs that emphasize sexual abstinence over contraception.', 'Some of these changes are being challenged in lawsuits by groups that support reproductive rights, but the new policies have broad support among evangelicals, who are a big part of the president’s political base.', 'The rule announced on Friday is not a wholesale defunding of Planned Parenthood, a long-held goal of conservatives. Organizations receiving money through the federal family planning program, called Title X, will still be able to perform abortions but will have to do so in a separate facility from their other operations and adhere to the new requirement that they not refer patients to it.', 'Organizations that receive federal funds have already been prohibited for years from using that money to finance abortion services. The new rule goes a step further by ordering them to keep separate books for their abortion operations.', 'Many women’s organizations said the new requirements will interfere with health providers’ responsibilities to fully counsel patients about reproductive health.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'Title X provides $286 million in funding for programs that provide services like birth control, screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer and screening and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. These programs serve about 4 million patients each year, many of them poor, at more than 4,000 clinics. About 40 percent of those clinics are operated by Planned Parenthood, which receives close to $60 million through the family planning program each year.', 'That rule was challenged all the way to the Supreme Court, which upheld it in 1991, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush. But the Bush administration did not implement it and in 1993 Bill Clinton was sworn in as president and eliminated the rule.', 'Conservative lawmakers hailed the new rule as a long overdue move back toward the Reagan policy, and some were especially pleased by the prospect that anti-abortion health providers could now be eligible for federal family planning funds.', 'But several medical organizations predicted that the new rule would ultimately leave large numbers of patients, especially low-income and minority women, without access to basic care.', 'Dr. Niva Lubin-Johnson, president of the National Medical Association, which represents African-American physicians and their patients, said that if Planned Parenthood loses the funding, other providers supported by the program would have to increase their caseloads by an average of 70 percent to care for the 1.6 million people who currently receive such services through Planned Parenthood.', 'Most of the changes required by the new regulation will be phased in beginning 60 days after it is published in the Federal Register. Compliance with the financial separation requirement takes effect 120 days after publication and clinics have a year to comply with the physical separation requirements.', 'Robert Pear contributed reporting from Washington.', 'Pam Belluck is a health and science writer. She was one of seven Times staffers awarded the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting for coverage of the Ebola epidemic. She is the author of “Island Practice,” about a colorful and contrarian doctor on Nantucket.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Assam spurious liquor death toll mounts to 158
['The death toll in the Assam hooch tragedy rose to 158 on Tuesday while more than 300 people are still receiving treatment at hospitals in Jorhat and Golaghat districts, a health department official said.', 'A man undergoing treatment died on Tuesday at the Golaghat Civil Hospital, taking the toll in the district to 56. More than 50 people are still under care in the hospital, the official said.', 'In Jorhat district, 78 people were recorded to have died at Jorhat Medical College Hospital and another 20 were brought dead, while 260 are undergoing treatment, the official said. In Titabor sub-divisional hospital of Jorhat district, four persons had died so far, he added.', 'As many as 22 people have been arrested in connection with the hooch tragedy in Golaghat and Jorhat districts, police said.', 'Following Excise Minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s directions, the Excise department has launched a crackdown on sale and production of illicit liquor in both the districts as well as across the State to prevent recurrence of such tragedies in the future.', 'The State government has also banned the sale of ‘lali gur’ or red molasses used in production of country liquor.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Congress will protect the language and culture of northeast: Rahul Gandhi
['The Conress chief promises to restore ‘special status’ to Assam.', 'Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday asserted that his party will protect the culture, history and language of the northeast if voted to power.', 'Kicking off the poll campaign in Assam, Mr. Gandhi attacked the BJP and the RSS, accusing them of “burning” every state in the region.', 'Mr. Gandhi exuded confidence that the Congress will come to power at the Centre and work towards protecting the identity of the region.', 'He also promised to restore ‘special status’ to Assam and bring back the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIIPP).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Modi assures country in safe hands, says he will not let country down
['In his first public address after the air strikes on terror camps in Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country is in safe hands and nothing is above the nation. The Prime Minister also said that he will not let the country down.', 'I want to assure the people that the country is in safe hands. There is nothing above the nation, he said addressing a public meeting in Churu.', 'The Prime Minister, however, did not make a direct reference to the Balakot strikes.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders. The operation, described as a non-military, preemptive strike, was welcomed by the entire political spectrum and military experts who had been advocating retribution after the February 14 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama claimed by JeM.', 'Addressing the rally, Mr. Modi said he was able to work because the party is above individuals and the country was above the party.', 'He said with the sentiment of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan’, the country was progressing ahead. Referring to the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Mr. Modi said that first installment of Rs 2000 was directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers.', 'Attacking the Congress government in the state, he said unfortunately not a single farmer from Churu was among the beneficiaries as the Rajasthan government was stopping the benefits that Centre wants to pass on to them.', 'Rajasthan has not provided list of farmers for the scheme launched by the Centre. Welfare of poor and farmers is the priority of our government but it is sad that schemes meant for them are subjected to politics, he said.', 'Mr. Modi said welfare of farmers was among the priorities of the government but it hurts when schemes related to them is subjected to politics. He said the government was working on ‘Sabka sath sabka vikas’ model.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


NIA carries out raids on separatists, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in Kashmir
['The NIA on Tuesday carried out searches at the residences of nine separatist leaders in the Kashmir valley, including that of Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said.', 'Besides the Mirwaiz, the houses of JKLF’s Yasin Malik, Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s son Nayeem Geelani, Shabir Shah, Zaffar Bhat and Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai were also searched.', 'According to police officers, the NIA raids were carried out in a “illegal funding case” registered by the national agency in 2017 when it rounded up seven top separatist leaders from Kashmir.', 'The NIA officials were accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel as searches were carried out.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


High-profile hopefuls begin campaign in Manipur
['Though the Lok Sabha election schedule is yet to be announced and party tickets yet to be allotted, some high-profile candidates have already launched their campaign in Manipur.', 'Former Chief Minister Radhabinod Koijam is one of the heavyweights who is seeking a BJP ticket for the Inner Manipur Lok Sabha constituency. His election posters have come up in all the valley districts. However, these posters do not state which party he will represent in the polls.', 'Another candidate, Oinam Nabakishore Singh, a former Chief Secretary, is also appealing to the voters of this constituency to elect him in front-page newspaper advertisements.', 'The State executive council of the CPI on Monday approved the candidature of M. Nara Singh, a former Minister. L. Sotin Kumar, the State secretary of the CPI, said there is a need to safeguard the people of the State since the BJP leaders are keen on including the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, in the party’s poll manifesto.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sackler Testimony Appears to Conflict With Federal Investigation
['Publication of a sealed deposition by Richard Sackler of Purdue Pharma shows inconsistencies between his statements about OxyContin and evidence presented in a Justice Department report.', 'A January demonstration outside Suffolk Superior Court in Boston, where the state’s lawsuit against Purdue Pharma, the maker of the opioid painkiller OxyContin, is proceeding.', 'A member of the family that owns the manufacturer of OxyContin repeatedly gave testimony in a lawsuit that conflicts with details in a report by federal prosecutors, newly disclosed court papers indicate.', 'Dr. Richard Sackler, who was once president of the company, Purdue Pharma, and is the son of one of its founders, said under oath during a pretrial deposition that he first learned from a Maine newspaper article in 2000 that OxyContin, a powerful opioid painkiller, was being abused.', 'The deposition, in a lawsuit filed by the state of Kentucky, was given in 2015 and has been sealed since. On Thursday, two news organizations, STAT and ProPublica, published the transcript of the deposition. Since the case’s settlement in 2015, Purdue Pharma has been fighting to keep the deposition secret.', 'In a statement, Purdue Pharma, which is based in Stamford, Conn., called the release of Mr. Sackler’s deposition “a clear violation of the court’s order and, as such, is regrettable.” The company also maintained that Mr. Sackler, when alerted to OxyContin’s abuse, immediately took steps to address the problem.', 'Mr. Sackler responded that he was not aware abuse was an issue when that email was written. However, it was two months earlier, in September, federal prosecutors wrote in 2006, that Mr. Sackler was told of internet reports of OxyContin abuse.', 'In the same deposition, Mr. Sackler testified that he recalled “never hearing about” significant abuse of OxyContin’s predecessor drug, a morphine-based painkiller sold under the brand name MS Contin.', 'That is also contradicted by the 2006 report, in which federal prosecutors pointed to emails and reports sent to Mr. Sackler and other family members in the late 1990s showing that there was significant abuse of MS Contin in Canada and other countries.', 'As part of the deposition, Mr. Sackler was also shown internal marketing documents that suggested Purdue Pharma was promoting OxyContin as a less powerful opioid than morphine. In fact, it is two times stronger than morphine. In his responses, Mr. Sackler claimed that the promotions were not efforts to mislead doctors into thinking OxyContin was a safer drug but to avoid any comparisons of it to morphine, which was viewed as a drug given to dying cancer patients.', 'Based on their findings, the prosecutors recommended in 2006 that three top company executives be indicted on felony charges. But in 2007, the government settled the case and allowed the three executives to plead guilty to misdemeanor charges. At that time, the prosecution memo was never disclosed.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


After SpaceX Launch, Israeli Spacecraft Begins Journey to the Moon
['The privately built spacecraft will take a long trip to the moon, landing on its surface in April.', 'A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying an Israeli moon lander and other payloads ahead of its launch from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida on Thursday.', 'Until now, only three nations — the United States, former Soviet Union and China — have sent robotic landers to the moon. Beginning in 2007, a competition run by the X Prize Foundation and financed by Google was supposed to spur entrepreneurs to send a privately financed spacecraft there, but the competition deadline passed without anyone taking home the $20 million grand prize.', 'When will Beresheet land on the moon?', 'The landing is expected to occur in April.', 'An artist’s rendering of the Beresheet spacecraft, which is expected to arrive at the moon in April.', 'Why will it take so long to get there?', 'The spacecraft is taking a long but fuel-efficient route. Instead of blasting out of Earth’s orbit, it will gradually elongate its elliptical orbit until it passes close enough to the moon to be captured by lunar gravity. Then it will spend a few more days making its orbit around the moon more circular before attempting a landing.', 'With $100 million and a lot of volunteer labor, SpaceIL’s Beresheet spacecraft could be the first privately built vessel to reach the lunar surface.', 'What will the Beresheet spacecraft do on the moon?', 'An instrument built by the Weizmann Institute of Science is to measure the moon’s magnetic field as the spacecraft approaches for landing. That information could reveal something about the iron core far below the surface.', 'NASA provided the spacecraft with retroreflectors, essentially, mirrors that reflect light in the same direction as the incoming beam. Lasers on Earth shined at that spot will bounce back, enabling precise measurement of the distance between Earth and the moon. Apollo astronauts left similar devices on the moon nearly 50 years ago.', 'The spacecraft is also a time capsule containing hundreds of digital files including the Torah, the Israeli flag, artwork contributed by the public and a children’s book that was inspired by SpaceIL’s mission to the moon.', 'It also will ferry a digital archive containing 30 million pages of information — including a full version of the English-language Wikipedia encyclopedia — provided by the Arch Mission Foundation, a nonprofit seeking to create a backup of humanity’s knowledge.', 'A final drill at SpaceIL’s mission control in Yehud, Israel, last week.', 'How long will the mission last?', 'Not long. Beresheet is not designed to operate for more than a few days. It will land at the beginning of a lunar day. The electronics are not designed to survive the hotter temperatures that prevail on the moon’s surface as the sun gets higher in the moon’s sky.', 'Will the mission succeed?', 'The traditional and more expensive approach to spacecraft design is to rely on components that have successfully flown before, and to include backups for critical systems. SpaceIL left out much of the redundancy and tried to take a more nimble approach to save money.', 'The engineers at SpaceIL and Israel Aerospace Industries, the large aerospace company that collaborated on building Beresheet, said the mission is riskier, but they made considered decisions on where to take shortcuts.', 'Will Beresheet hop?', 'One of the requirements for winning the $20 million Google Lunar X Prize was that the spacecraft had to move 500 meters, or 1,640 feet, on the lunar surface. To achieve this, SpaceIL’s engineers planned to have Beresheet take off again after landing and move the required distance.', 'The SpaceIL team will make a final hop-or-no-hop decision after the landing in April.', 'What other spacecraft launched with Beresheet aboard the SpaceX rocket?', 'Beresheet was not the main payload on the rocket. The main customer was Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, an Indonesian satellite operator that is launching a telecommunications satellite called Nusantara Satu. As a secondary rideshare, SpaceIL was able to pay much less for its trip.', 'The rocket will also deploy an experimental satellite for the United States Air Force.', 'The first stage of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket itself has launched and landed twice, once in July 2018 and again in October.', 'Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Wait —: Wait — What Is a Hole?
['Wait — What Is a Hole?', 'Wait — What Is a Hole?', 'Allow me to ruin your life real quick.', 'A few days into the new year, someone asked me, as a kind of puzzle: “What is a hole?” Right now, your brain is protecting you; human brains are poor multitaskers and since yours is occupied with reading, you haven’t yet had time to sit back and consider the question that has blown across the fecund wasteland of my thoughts nearly every day of 2019. The problem is that your brain cannot protect you forever. If you want to get off this ride, you need to do it now.', 'What is a hole?', 'And yet, there are other characteristics of holes that escape our special attention. We have no common word for a hole that is bigger than a pinprick but smaller than a pothole. German identifies a metaphorical hole in the month of January when the bustle, spirits and commerce of the holiday season suddenly abate (“Januarloch”). In some dialects of Spanish, a “butrón” is a hole made in a building to carry out a break-in.', 'Great question.', 'Speaking of holes...', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Shopping Guide: Shopping for Desk Chairs
['When you’re choosing seating for a home office, don’t forget to think about where else you might be using it.', 'At the office, a desk chair usually has just one purpose: to keep you comfortably upright in front of a computer.', 'In addition to serving as a place to sit and write a letter or compose a quick email, for instance, a desk chair ought to be able to function as extra seating at the dining table, or in the living room.', 'That means that a high-tech, lever-sprouting task chair isn’t necessarily the best choice.', 'How long will you really be sitting there? An honest answer to that question, Ms. Gachot said, will help determine how much support and cushioning is required.', 'Should it have armrests? They can provide extra comfort, but measure how high they are, Ms. Gachot advised, to ensure that the chair can be tucked under your desk when it’s not in use.', 'Should it have casters? They are convenient for scooting between work areas, but not essential. For a seat that will double as a dining chair, it may be better to forgo them.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Oscars Red Carpet: Lady Gaga, Billy Porter, Kacey Musgraves and More at the Academy Awards
['Here’s everything we saw.', 'And a very brief moment of exciting gender fun but overall a very traditional view of mens’ and womens’ dressing.', 'Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Oscars 2019: ‘Green Book,’ Rami Malek and Olivia Colman Are Winners
['LOS ANGELES — “Green Book,” about a white chauffeur and his black client in segregation-era America, won best picture and two other trophies at the 91st Academy Awards, overcoming a series of awards-season setbacks and mixed critical notices.', 'In many ways, the ceremony — the first without a host in 30 years — played out like the more populist and less prestigious Golden Globes: veering in multiple directions as voters sprinkled their attention among a dozen pictures, with no film walking away with a commanding sweep.', 'A gobsmacked Colman gave a giggling, circuitous acceptance speech that nonetheless managed to address the elephant in the room — that her victory had denied one to Glenn Close (“The Wife”), who had been expected to break her seven-nomination losing streak.', 'Spike Lee was not as sanguine. When “Green Book” won best picture, he made a disgusted gesture and started walking out of the theater as “Green Book” producers gave their speeches. Backstage, Lee said, “No comment,” when asked about the coronation of “Green Book,” which detractors complain has a retrograde view of race.', 'In a major shift from the #OscarsSoWhite years of 2015 and 2016, this year’s ceremony, which lasted a little over three hours, was notable for the diversity of honorees. Two “Black Panther” crew members, Hannah Beachler (production design) and Ruth E. Carter (costumes), became the first African-Americans to receive Oscars in their respective categories. Cuarón received the prize for best cinematography for “Roma,” making him the first director to win for shooting his own film.', 'Asian-Americans were represented in victories for “Free Solo,” which was named best documentary, and for “Bao,” which won best animated short. L.G.B.T. people were acknowledged with “Bohemian Rhapsody.', 'And the Oscar for best Academy Awards host goes to … nobody!', 'So began this hostless, in-a-hurry Oscars, itself a longtime institution moving forward and putting on a show without the public face it started with.', 'And as it turns out, Hart — or whoever might have replaced him — was hardly missed.', 'Brian May and Adam Lambert opened the Academy Awards ceremony.', 'The show took its lead from the Grammys, opening with a rowdy rendition of “We Will Rock You” by Queen.', 'Tina Fey, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph then took the stage and — while explaining they were not the hosts — gave a mini-performance that drew relaxed laughter from the audience and seemed to make the case that the three women should be hired to co-host next year, pronto. In a quick segue, they began presenting the Oscar for best supporting actress at the show’s eight-minute mark. Last year, it took the show 18 minutes just to get through Jimmy Kimmel’s monologue.', 'Two subsequent awards also found African-American women called to the stage. Carter, a three-time nominee (“Amistad,” “Malcolm X”), won best costume design for her Afro-futuristic “Black Panther” attire. Beachler made history herself for her work (with Jay Hart).', 'The film also won for Ludwig Goransson’s score.', 'The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences had pressed the producers of this year’s ceremony to drastically reduce the running time. Last year, the Oscars stretched to almost four hours — beyond the endurance of viewers, with ratings dropping to a record low. In one abandoned plan, the academy wanted to award four Oscars, including hair and makeup, during the commercial breaks, with the winning moments edited and aired later in the broadcast.', 'Perhaps as a protest, intentional or not, the three winners for hair and makeup, honored for their work on “Vice,” took their time at the microphone. In an awkward and halting set of thank yous, they fumbled with a piece of paper containing names and went way over their allotted 90-second time. Producers started the playoff music and ultimately cut sound to the microphone.', 'Notably, none of the winners from “Bohemian Rhapsody” thanked Bryan Singer, who was fired as the film’s director because of erratic behavior on the set and has been dogged by sexual misconduct allegations.', 'The first win for “Green Book” was a supporting actor victory by Mahershala Ali. It was Ali’s second supporting actor win in recent years. (He previously won in 2017 for his role in “Moonlight.”) Ali became the second African-American man to win two Oscars for acting, joining Denzel Washington.', 'Peter Ramsey, one of the three-credited “Spider-Verse” directors, spoke about the importance of inclusion in animated films. “We see you, we’re powerful,” he said to fans who identified with the diverse characters in the film.', 'Pixar did not leave empty-handed, thanks to its win for “Bao,” conceived and directed by Domee Shi. Even the space-race thriller “First Man” picked up an award, for visual effects.', 'Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


This Week’s Wedding Announcements
['All of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.', 'Patrice Moss and Melvin Witcher Jr.', 'Melvin Witcher Jr. got a first glimpse of Patrice Moss in April 2015 during an Easter play performed at the First Baptist Church in Glenarden, Md.', 'Mr. Witcher, who is admittedly shy, did not try starting a conversation with her. “The words were just stuck in my throat,” he said.', 'Two months later, he managed to let a few of those words loose and steered them in Ms. Moss’s direction when he bumped into her at a housewarming party in Upper Marlboro.', 'Two months later, Mr. Witcher and several friends were sitting in a restaurant when Ms. Moss walked through the door with several of her friends.', 'But this time, he went over to her and they chatted briefly and exchanged phone numbers.', 'But Mr. Witcher was still shy, which is why he didn’t call or text her for nearly a week. “I guess I was a little nervous,” he said. But Ms. Moss was not exactly sitting home waiting for her phone to ring.', 'Two weeks later, they were back where they started, at the same church, where a music festival was being staged.', 'Read more.', 'Jessica Rose Brandt and Dr. Jeffrey Alan Tornheim were married Feb. 20 in Westmoreland Hills Park in Bethesda, Md. Rabbi Hannah Goldstein, a friend of the couple, officiated. On Feb. 24, Rabbi Adam J. Baldachin also a friend of the couple, is to lead a Jewish ceremony at Casa Maya Kaan, a private villa in Tulum, Mexico.', 'Ms. Brandt, 35, is a fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution in Washington, where her research focuses on multilateral institutions and the geopolitical consequences of state fragility. She is a David Rockefeller fellow of the Trilateral Commission and a term member of the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan. She graduated with honors from Johns Hopkins University and received a master’s degree in public policy from Harvard.', 'She is a daughter of Janet E. Ribardo of Lakewood Ranch, Fla., and Alan J. Brandt of West Nyack, N.Y. The bride’s father retired as the principal at Intermediate School 193 in the Bronx, and then retired as the director of curriculum for kindergarten through Grade 12 at the College Board in Manhattan. Her mother retired as an independent nurse practitioner, based in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.', 'Dr. Tornheim, 37, an infectious disease doctor, is an assistant professor of medicine and a physician-scientist at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore. His research focuses on the application of new diagnostic technologies to improve health outcomes in the treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis in India. He graduated magna cum laude from Brandeis University and received a medical degree and a master’s degree in public health from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, now known as the Icahn School of Medicine.', 'He is the son of Bonnie J. Tornheim and Mark Tornheim of Surprise, Ariz. His mother retired as a teacher at Sequoia Elementary School in Pleasant Hill, Calif. His father retired as a commercial real estate appraiser at the Alameda County Assessor’s Office in Oakland, Calif.', 'The couple met in the summer of 2016 through the dating app JSwipe, and when he moved to Mumbai, India, for the academic year in September, they then met for extended dates around the world in Tel Aviv, Paris, Lake Tahoe, Calif., and finally in Goa, India.', 'Craig Emery Szalai and Geoff Charles Todebush were married Feb. 23 at the Ritz-Carlton in Rancho Mirage, Calif.', 'Mr. Szalai (left), 42, is a senior manager for talent acquisition in the North American headquarters of Tommy Hilfiger in New York. He graduated from Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa.', 'He is the son of Janet E. Szalai and Emery A. Szalai of New Kensington, Pa. Mr. Szalai’s father, who is retired, owned Emery Szalai Architects and Associates in Pittsburgh.', 'Mr. Todebush, 48, is a senior vice president for production operations at Viacom in New York, where he works across several brands like Comedy Central, MTV and Nickelodeon. He graduated from Hobart College.', 'He is a son of the late Betty L. Todebush and the late Ralph B. Todebush Jr., who lived in St. Charles, Ill. Mr. Todebush’s mother worked as a sales associate at Talbots, a clothing store in Naples, Fla. His father was a data processing manager for Nichols-Homeshield, a company that manufactures specialized aluminum products in Naperville, Ill.', 'The couple met in 2006 through Match.com in New York.', 'Jeanne Esther Leitenberg and Jordan Isaac Newman were married Feb. 23 at Liberty House, a restaurant and events space in Jersey City. Rabbi Inna Serebro-Litvak officiated.', 'The bride, 35, is a television screenwriter in Los Angeles. Her credits include the CW’s “Gossip Girl” and ABC Family’s “Chasing Life.” She graduated from Emerson College in Boston.', 'She is a daughter of Marion M. Orr and Jack M. Leitenberg of New City, N.Y. The bride’s father is a New York-based manager for the musicians Lionel Loueke, Butcher Brown and Grégoire Maret. Her mother, who is retired, managed the career of the jazz artist Bob James and his record company, Tappan Zee Records.', 'The groom, 34, works in Los Angeles as a digital strategist for political campaigns. He currently serves as a digital director at Leadership for Educational Equity, an organization that helps elect teachers to public office. He graduated from Boston University.', 'He is the son of Mara H. Newman and Jeffrey D. Newman of Randolph, N.J. The groom’s mother retired as an outpatient dietitian at Morristown Medical Center in Morristown, N.J. His father, also retired, worked as a principal at PricewaterhouseCoopers in New York, and currently serves as president of Temple Shalom in Succasunna, N.J.', 'The couple met in October 2016 through the dating app Bumble.', 'Jessica Taylor Sutton and Patrick Thomas Quinn were married Feb. 23 at the Holy Trinity Church in Brooklyn. The Rev. Kate Salisbury, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.', 'Mrs. Quinn, 30, is a senior associate in the litigation department at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, the Manhattan law firm. She graduated magna cum laude from Duke with two bachelor’s degrees, one in linguistics and one in French. She also received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.', 'She is the daughter of Christine Akerman Holzer of Manhattan and Dennis P. Sutton of Plano, Tex. The bride’s father is the director of owner relations and communications at Compass Royalty Management, an oil and gas asset management company in Addison, Tex. Her mother is a psychotherapist in private practice in Manhattan.', 'The bride is the stepdaughter of the late Karl Akerman, who owned Rocketfuel Sales, a sports management company in Manhattan.', 'Mr. Quinn, 29, is counsel at Two Sigma Investments, a hedge fund in Manhattan. He graduated magna cum laude from Villanova University, with two bachelor’s degrees, one in accounting and one in finance. He also received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.', 'He is a son of Aimee Quinn and Thomas P. Quinn of Havertown, Pa. The groom’s mother is the mathematics department chair at Merion Mercy Academy in Merion Station, Pa. His father, who is retired, was formerly the director of project management at Johnson & Johnson in Raritan, N.J.', 'The couple met in June 2014 while working together as associates at Willkie Farr & Gallagher.', 'Julia Niles Ward and Bryant Anthony Rich were married Feb. 23 at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York. The Rev. Kate Dunn, a Presbyterian minister, officiated.', 'The bride, 32, is the manager of workplace strategy in New York for New York Road Runners. She graduated from Davidson College and received a masters of public administration in nonprofit management from N.Y.U.', 'She is a daughter of Nancy N.W. Ward and Alex Ward of New York. The bride’s father is the editorial director of book development at The New York Times. Her mother is the vice president and the managing director of the Independent Journalism Foundation in New York, which creates training centers for journalists in Eastern and Central Europe and Southeast Asia.', 'The groom, 34, is a vice president in the credit research group at Conning Asset Management in Hartford. He graduated from Bowdoin College and received an M.B.A. from Georgetown.', 'He is the son of Vanessa L. Bryant and Tracy L. Rich of Avon, Conn. The groom’s mother is a United States District Court judge in Hartford for the District of Connecticut. His father is a retired executive vice president and general counsel for the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, for which he now serves as of counsel to the company.', 'The couple met in October 2016 through the dating app Hinge.', 'Diana Dae Yeon Won and Hassan Emaduddin Ansari were married Feb. 21 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Angel L. Lopez of the city clerk’s office officiated.', 'The couple met at the University of Michigan, from which the groom graduated and received a law degree, and each received a master’s degree in public policy.', 'The bride, 30, is a program manager in New York for the Pershing Square Foundation, a charitable venture that has provided more than $400 million in grants since 2006. She graduated magna cum laude from Rutgers and received a Fulbright grant in 2011-12 to teach English at the Autonomous University of Bucaramanga in Bucaramanga, Colombia.', 'She is a daughter of Junghee Won and Jongil Won of Closter, N.J.', 'The groom, 29, is an assistant professor of law at the Lahore University of Management Sciences in Lahore, Pakistan, where he teaches courses in legal theory and human rights to undergraduates. He is currently on sabbatical to conduct research in New York.', 'He is the son of Iram Ansari and Hassan Ansari of Lahore.', 'The couple met at a Mexican Independence Day party in September 2013, and began dating the next year.', 'Joanna Rose Genco and Dr. Christian Joseph Zaino were married Feb. 23 at the Shrine Church of St. Bernadette in Brooklyn. The Rev. Glenn Sudano, a Roman Catholic priest and a cousin of the groom, performed the ceremony.', 'Mrs. Zaino, 31, is a registered nurse in the Morristown, N.J., office of Garden State Urology, a group practice based in Whippany, N.J. She graduated from Hunter College, and received an associate degree in nursing from Phillips School of Nursing at Mount Sinai Beth Israel in Manhattan and a bachelor of science degree in nursing from the University of Texas at Arlington.', 'She is a daughter of Phyllis J. Genco and Joseph S. Genco of Brooklyn. The bride’s father, a retired dental technician, oversaw Genco Restorations, a dental laboratory in Brooklyn.', 'Dr. Zaino, 34, is an orthopedic hand surgeon at the Orthopedic Institute of New Jersey in Morristown. He graduated magna cum laude from N.Y.U., from which he also received a medical degree.', 'He is the son of Anita R. Zaino and Barney B. Zaino of Brooklyn. The groom’s father, who is retired, owned Dental Connections, a dental equipment and servicing company in Brooklyn.', 'The bride and groom, who each grew up in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, met in 2009 at NYU Langone Medical Center while Ms. Genco worked for one of Dr. Zaino’s mentors. Five years later, after Dr. Zaino contacted the NYU Langone office, where she was still working, to do some research, she asked him out for a drink just to catch up. Instead, he asked her out to dinner in Red Hook, Brooklyn.', 'Pooja Patel and Alastair Eric Rami were married Feb. 22 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Angel L. Lopez, a staff member of the city clerk’s office, officiated. On March 5, Jacob Ritter, an interfaith minister, is to lead the couple in an exchange of vows in a ceremony on the beach at the Phi Phi Island Village Beach Resort on Ko Phi Phi Island, Thailand.', 'Ms. Patel, 30, works as a director of legal affairs at Glossier, a cosmetics company in New York. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Maryland and received a law degree from Harvard.', 'She is a daughter of Margi Patel and Navin J. Patel of Gaithersburg, Md. The bride’s father is an independently contracted software engineer for United States Customs and Border Protection in Alexandria, Va. The bride’s mother is a division chief at the Department of Defense in Arlington, Va.', 'Mr. Rami, 34, works as a team lead at Bridgewater Associates, an investment firm in Westport, Conn. He previously served as the deputy chief of staff and legislative director to Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. He graduated from Northwestern and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.', 'He is a son of Angela A. Rami and Anand C. Rami of Vancouver, Wash. The groom’s father works in Vancouver as the president of Silicon Innovation, a firm that advises companies that manufacture polysilicon.', 'The couple met in 2012 at a bar in Washington while both were graduate students.', 'Naomi Tanya Levin and Avraham Shneur Zalman Cohn are to be married Feb. 24 at Crystal Plaza, an events space in Livingston, N.J. Rabbi Naftali Citron is to officiate.', 'The bride, 35, will be taking her husband’s name. Until 2018, she was a software developer at Yext, an online business-management technology company in New York. She ran in the 2018 election as the Republican candidate in New York’s 10th Congressional District. She is on the board of Endowment for Middle East Truth, a pro-Israeli nonprofit group in Washington informing legislators and policy decisions on national security and the Middle East. She is also a vice president on the board of the Manhattan Republican Party. She graduated from Boston University with a dual bachelor’s degree in computer science and biology.', 'Ms. Levin is a daughter of Larissa V. Levin and Leonid A. Levin of Newton, Mass. Her father is a computer science professor at Boston University. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge, Mass. Until 1992, her mother was a biochemist focusing on cancer research at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester.', 'The groom, 31, who is known as Abe, is an intellectual property lawyer at the Cohn Legal Group in New York, a division of Howard M. Cohn & Associates in Cleveland, in which his father, Howard M. Cohn, a patent lawyer, is the managing partner. The groom graduated cum laude from the University of Maryland and received a law degree from Yeshiva University.', 'He is a son of Basha Cohn and Mr. Cohn of Beachwood, Ohio.', 'The couple met in 2016 when Ms. Levin and a group of her friends met Mr. Cohn and a group of his friends at a sushi lounge in Midtown Manhattan.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Norman Orentreich, 96, Force Behind Hair Transplants, Dies
['Dr. Norman Orentreich in the mid-1950s during an appearance on the television program “World of Medicine.” His research showed the viability of transplanting hair to a bald scalp.', 'Dr. Orentreich (pronounced OR-en-trike), who died on Jan. 23 at 96, went on to develop other cosmetic countermeasures for aging, but not without controversy. One of his novel treatments — injecting tiny droplets of liquid silicone in the skin to smooth facial wrinkles — raised concerns among some of his peers and drew regulatory scrutiny.', 'Dr. Orentreich’s pioneering approach and personal attention drew actors, artists, models, publishing executives and other high-profile clients to his office, the Orentreich Medical Group, on Fifth Avenue on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.', 'In addition to transplants and injections, Dr. Orentreich often prescribed face creams and other products of his own devising.', 'It was the second multibillion-dollar market that he had a hand in advancing. Today, American beauty products that apply ideas from dermatology to promote skin health or treat problems like acne are cosmetic industry staples.', 'Dr. Norman Orentreich in 2011. His private Fifth Avenue practice drew actors, artists, models, publishing executives and other high-profile clients.', 'Although Dr. Orentreich’s name was not listed on Clinique’s products, his role as its guiding dermatologist paved the way decades later for entrepreneurial plastic surgeons and dermatologists to develop and market skin-care brands under their own names.', 'Norman Orentreich was born on Dec. 26, 1922, in Manhattan and, with his younger brother, Seymour, grew up in tenements on the Lower East Side.', 'His father, David Orentreich, an immigrant from Austria, was a tailor in the garment district. His mother, Anna Scheiner, from Poland, ran a store selling household items.', 'Dr. Orentreich’s entrepreneurial bent emerged early on. He learned to drive when he was 13 during the Great Depression, and earned money parking cars.', 'He graduated from Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan in 1939 and from City College of New York with a bachelor’s in biology and chemistry.', 'While he was an undergraduate, Dr. Orentreich met his future wife, Roslyn Seidner, who was in high school. He was 19 and she was 16. The meeting had been arranged by their parents. Her father, a furrier, had met his father through the garment industry.', 'Dr. Orentreich received an introduction to medicine after he was drafted into the Navy during World War II. From 1943 to 1945, he was stationed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, where he served in the Navy Medical Corps as a pharmacist’s mate, helping medical officers examine recruits.', 'After the war he attended what is now the New York University School of Medicine, graduating in 1948. From 1950 to 1953 he did postgraduate training in dermatology at the N.Y.U. Medical Center’s skin and cancer unit. He became head of the unit’s hair clinic in 1953.', 'But the medical understanding of hair loss was still in its early stages, and the young doctor had few treatments to offer. To learn more about hair growth and loss, he devised a research study, in which he punched out small circles of skin from the back and front of men’s scalps. He then transplanted the hair that he had removed from the back of the head to bald areas in the front.', 'It was a eureka moment. And it led Dr. Orentreich to begin developing hair transplantation surgery as a viable, medically proven treatment.', 'But his idea was so revolutionary that a major dermatology journal declined to publish his research. It was eventually published in the Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, in 1959. Over the decades, other doctors would refine hair transplantation surgery.', 'His son, Dr. David Orentreich, said his father died of complications of pneumonia in Manhattan. In addition to him, he is survived by two daughters, Dr. Catherine Orentreich and Sari Mass, and four grandchildren. David and Catherine Orentreich, both dermatologists, continue to run their father’s practice and also consult for Clinique.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


China Uses DNA to Track Its People, With the Help of American Expertise
['Tahir Imin, a 38-year-old Uighur, had his blood drawn, his face scanned and his voice recorded by the authorities in China’s Xinjiang region.', 'The Chinese authorities turned to a Massachusetts company and a prominent Yale researcher as they built an enormous system of surveillance and control.', 'Tahir Imin, a 38-year-old Uighur, had his blood drawn, his face scanned and his voice recorded by the authorities in China’s Xinjiang region.', 'BEIJING — The authorities called it a free health check. Tahir Imin had his doubts.', 'They drew blood from the 38-year-old Muslim, scanned his face, recorded his voice and took his fingerprints. They didn’t bother to check his heart or kidneys, and they rebuffed his request to see the results.', 'Mr. Imin was one of millions of people caught up in a vast Chinese campaign of surveillance and oppression. To give it teeth, the Chinese authorities are collecting DNA — and they got unlikely corporate and academic help from the United States to do it.', 'Collecting genetic material is a key part of China’s campaign, according to human rights groups and Uighur activists. They say a comprehensive DNA database could be used to chase down any Uighurs who resist conforming to the campaign.', 'To bolster their DNA capabilities, scientists affiliated with China’s police used equipment made by Thermo Fisher, a Massachusetts company. For comparison with Uighur DNA, they also relied on genetic material from people around the world that was provided by Kenneth Kidd, a prominent Yale University geneticist.', 'On Wednesday, Thermo Fisher said it would no longer sell its equipment in Xinjiang, the part of China where the campaign to track Uighurs is mostly taking place. The company said separately in an earlier statement to The New York Times that it was working with American officials to figure out how its technology was being used.', 'Dr. Kidd said he had been unaware of how his material and know-how were being used. He said he believed Chinese scientists were acting within scientific norms that require informed consent by DNA donors.', 'China’s campaign poses a direct challenge to the scientific community and the way it makes cutting-edge knowledge publicly available. The campaign relies in part on public DNA databases and commercial technology, much of it made or managed in the United States. In turn, Chinese scientists have contributed Uighur DNA samples to a global database, potentially violating scientific norms of consent.', 'Cooperation from the global scientific community “legitimizes this type of genetic surveillance,” said Mark Munsterhjelm, an assistant professor at the University of Windsor in Ontario who has closely tracked the use of American technology in Xinjiang.', 'China has maintained an iron grip in Xinjiang, where it is trying to make Uighur Muslims more subservient to the Communist Party.', 'From 2016 to 2017, nearly 36 million people took part in it, according to Xinhua, China’s official news agency. The authorities collected DNA samples, images of irises and other personal data, according to Uighurs and human rights groups. It is unclear whether some residents participated more than once — Xinjiang has a population of about 24.5 million.', 'In late 2016, the Communist Party embarked on a campaign to turn the Uighurs and other largely Muslim minority groups into loyal supporters. The government locked up hundreds of thousands of them in what it called job training camps, touted as a way to escape poverty, backwardness and radical Islam. It also began to take DNA samples.', 'In at least some of the cases, people didn’t give up their genetic material voluntarily. To mobilize Uighurs for the free medical checkups, police and local cadres called or sent them text messages, telling them the checkups were required, according to Uighurs interviewed by The Times.', 'A market in Kashgar, a city in Xinjiang. China has detained up to a million people in camps in the western region.', 'Kenneth Kidd first visited China in 1981 and remained curious about the country. So when he received an invitation in 2010 for an expenses-paid trip to visit Beijing, he said yes.', 'Dr. Kidd is a major figure in the genetics field. The 77-year-old Yale professor has helped to make DNA evidence more acceptable in American courts.', 'His Chinese hosts had their own background in law enforcement. They were scientists from the Ministry of Public Security — essentially, China’s police.', 'During that trip, Dr. Kidd met Li Caixia, the chief forensic physician of the ministry’s Institute of Forensic Science. The relationship deepened. In December 2014, Dr. Li arrived at Dr. Kidd’s lab for an 11-month stint. She took some DNA samples back to China.', 'Dr. Kidd’s data became part of China’s DNA drive.', 'Paul Flicek, member of the steering committee of the 1000 Genomes Project, said that its data was unrestricted and that “there is no obvious problem” if it was being used as a way to determine where a DNA sample came from.', 'The data flow also went the other way.', 'Dr. Kidd said he was “not particularly happy” that the ministry had cited him in its patents, saying his data shouldn’t be used in ways that could allow people or institutions to potentially profit from it. If the Chinese authorities used data they got from their earlier collaborations with him, he added, there is little he can do to stop them.', 'He said he was unaware of the filings until he was contacted by The Times.', 'Dr. Kidd also said he considered his collaboration with the ministry to be no different from his work with police and forensics labs elsewhere. He said governments should have access to data about minorities, not just the dominant ethnic group, in order to have an accurate picture of the whole population.', 'As for the consent issue, he said the burden of meeting that standard lay with the Chinese researchers, though he said reports about what Uighurs are subjected to in China raised some difficult questions.', 'China is ramping up spending on health care and research. The Chinese market for gene-sequencing equipment and other technologies was worth $1 billion in 2017 and could more than double in five years, according to CCID Consulting, a research firm. But the Chinese market is loosely regulated, and it isn’t always clear where the equipment goes or to what uses it is put.', 'Thermo Fisher sells everything from lab instruments to forensic DNA testing kits to DNA mapping machines, which help scientists decipher a person’s ethnicity and identify diseases to which he or she is particularly vulnerable. China accounted for 10 percent of Thermo Fisher’s $20.9 billion in revenue, according to the company’s 2017 annual report, and it employs nearly 5,000 people there.', 'China used Thermo Fisher’s equipment to map the genes of its people, according to five Ministry of Public Security patent filings.', 'The researchers said they had obtained 95 Uighur DNA samples, some of which were given to them by the police. Other samples were provided by Uighurs voluntarily, they said.', 'Tahir Hamut, a Uighur now living in Virginia whose blood was taken by the police in Xinjiang, said it was “inconceivable” that Uighurs there would have consented to give DNA samples.', 'Human rights groups praised Thermo Fisher’s move. Still, they said, equipment and information flows into China should be better monitored, to make sure the authorities elsewhere don’t send them to Xinjiang.', 'China’s tracking campaign unnerved people like Tahir Hamut. In May 2017, the police in the city of Urumqi in Xinjiang drew the 49-year-old Uighur’s blood, took his fingerprints, recorded his voice and took a scan of his face. He was called back a month later for what he was told was a free health check at a local clinic.', 'Mr. Hamut, a filmmaker who is now living in Virginia, said he saw between 20 to 40 Uighurs in line. He said it was absurd to think that such frightened people had consented to submit their DNA.', 'Sui-Lee Wee has been a correspondent for The New York Times in the Beijing bureau since October 2016. She covers business in China, Chinese consumers, health care and the intersection of demographics and the economy.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Upper East Side Salon Under Investigation for Racial Discrimination
['New York City is reviewing complaints from former employees at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger who say their hair was deemed inappropriate for work.', 'A client getting her hair washed at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.', 'Former workers at a luxury Upper East Side hair salon that is under investigation for racial discrimination said this week that they were told by the management there that Afros and box-braided hairstyles did not reflect the upscale image of the neighborhood.', 'Between 2016 and 2018, four complaints were filed to New York City’s human rights commission about the management and one senior stylist at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger. The resulting investigation into the salon led, in part, to the announcement last week of the city’s ban on discrimination based on hair.', 'Two other complaints were filed in June 2018. One was from a former receptionist who is Hispanic and claimed she was asked to steer clients away from stylists who refused to sign a document attesting to the fairness of the salon’s dress code.', 'Ms. Dorram asked him to create a dress code.', 'Ms. Ocasio, 28, who is Puerto Rican, said in an interview this week that she quit her job at the salon because she felt the hair-up rule was racist.', 'Ms. Roberts said that if white employees wore their hair down, “no one said anything.” She quit in May 2016 and filed a complaint several months later in December.', 'Afro.', 'Ms. Guy described the policy of mandating ponytails and buns as “a cop-out.” She said: “They were trying to figure out a way to have me not wear my hair like this,” referring to her Afro.', 'Ms. Aubourg, 26, also quit shortly after the rules were introduced, about a year after she was hired. When she started at the salon in October 2014, Ms. Aubourg wore her hair in a weave and it was straight. But later that year, after she came back from vacation with box braids, a senior stylist, Tim Lehman, didn’t approve, she said.', 'Mr. Lehman did not reply to repeated requests for comment.', 'Ms. Dorram vehemently denied that the employee hair policy was racially motivated and said the text messages were mischaracterized. She also said she offered Ms. Roberts a promotion and a raise and claimed that after Ms. Roberts quit, she would return to the salon for blowouts.', 'On Wednesday, Mr. Tuttleman said he was unaware of the details of the allegations. He described himself as a “silent partner,” who is not involved in the daily operations of the salon. “Of course, I don’t condone racial discrimination at all and never would support it in any capacity,” he said.', 'Mr. Speer, the general manager, shared emails with the Times that he sent to Ms. Hershberger and Mr. Tuttleman in August of 2015 informing them that he was resigning because he refused to enforce dress code policies.', 'On Wednesday, Ms. Guy recalled that in her time at the salon, clients reacted positively to her look.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Marella Agnelli, Society’s ‘Last Swan’ and a Passionate Gardener, Is Dead at 91
['Marella Agnelli and her husband, Giovanni Agnelli, in 1988.', 'Marella Agnelli, a descendant of Neapolitan nobility who lived a rarefied life of palatial estates, ornamental gardens, fine art, high fashion and lofty society, died on Saturday at her home in Turin, Italy. She was 91.', 'The death was announced by the Agnelli family in a statement.', 'Mrs. Agnelli remained active and creative in her later years, purchasing and restoring a dilapidated villa in Marrakesh, Morocco, publishing an autobiographical coffee table book and appearing in an HBO documentary about the life of her husband, in 2003.', 'She was born Princess Marella Caracciolo di Castagneto on May 4, 1927, in Florence. Her mother, the former Margaret Clarke of Peoria, Ill., was a wealthy Anglo-American expatriate, the daughter of a distiller; her father, Filippo Caracciolo, was part of a Neapolitan noble family.', 'The Agnellis in Rome in 1954.', 'Marella’s world expanded with her education. She studied art and design at the Académie des Beaux-Arts and Académie Julian in Paris before moving to New York in the early 1950s. There she modeled in exchange for the chance to learn about photography from Erwin Blumenfeld, a Vogue contributor.', 'The life of Mr. Agnelli, known as Gianni to his friends, seemed in line with the adventurous one she hoped to lead. She had heard stories about his service in World War II from friends and knew well of his tight-knit family’s penchant for glamour and speed.', 'Fiat, the company Mr. Agnelli’s grandfather founded in 1899 in Turin, had experienced tremendous growth after the war during a period known as Italy’s “miracolo economico,” or economic miracle. Accordingly, the Agnellis insulated their lives with excess: parties, villas, yachts, cars, women.', 'Gianni, the eldest of the seven Agnelli children and the head of the family since his parents’ deaths, had a reputation for being a playboy and had frequently been mentioned in gossip columns. So when he and Marella got engaged in 1953, it was a relief to his siblings.', 'The Agnellis’ villa in the hills of Italy’s Piedmont region.', 'After the wedding, Mrs. Agnelli was not eager to take on the role of housewife. She had recently spent 18 months apprenticing with Blumenfeld and accepted a reporting job with Condé Nast, which she abandoned after the wedding.', 'What she did love, though, was the leisure and the luxury. In the Vanity Fair article, she recalled a shopping trip in Paris shortly after the wedding. Mrs. Agnelli had booked an overnight train from Turin, and when she boarded her sleeping car, she found that it was full of her home comforts: monogrammed towels, her favorite toiletries, even fresh flowers.', 'Marella Agnelli during the funeral service for her husband, Gianni Agnelli, of the Fiat car manufacturing empire, in Turin, Italy, in 2003.', 'The couple had their first child, Edoardo, in 1954, and Margherita followed the next year. Mrs. Agnelli is survived by her daughter, Margherita Agnelli de Pahlen, her brother Nicola Caracciolo di Castagneto and eight grandchildren. Her son died in 2000.', 'As parents Marella and Gianni continued to refine their image as a power couple. They acquired an expansive contemporary art collection that included works by Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg and Frank Stella; yachted up and down the Amalfi Coast with John and Jacqueline Kennedy and swam in the Adriatic Sea with Mr. Capote; collected cars, yachts and private planes; and cultivated acres of pristine gardens at their several homes on three continents.', 'Gardening was one of Mrs. Agnelli’s lifelong passions. She spent decades working with the English garden designer Russell Page to perfect her family’s 25 acres at Villar Perosa in Turin, and later got involved with the Italian Environmental Fund, an organization focused on preserving historic landscapes. Her love of landscape architecture was cataloged in two books that she co-wrote, “Gardens of the Italian Villas” (1987) and “The Agnelli Gardens at Villar Perosa: Two Centuries of a Family Retreat” (1998).', 'Gaia Pianigiani and Vanessa Friedman contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Domains: We Love to Be Smushed
['Heavy bedding is everywhere. Does it work?', 'Mr. Roche wanted out of architecture, but bubble ball, he reckoned, was maybe not the most sustainable future. He had been reading self-help books on entrepreneurship and they all said the same thing: Just start something.', 'By June of 2017 he had an online shingle, some basic Google ads and a place on Amazon. By 2018, rocabi was selling thousands for $199 and had branched out, just before Christmas, with a new item: the Boyfriend Blanket, made from shearling and denim, to mimic the look of a cozy jean jacket.', 'Mr. Roche is hardly alone in his heavy-bedding endeavor. Weight may be the new thread count, as he and other newly minted makers of therapeutic comforters hope to turn the bedroom into a quasi-medical space, the latest iteration in the commodification of sleep.', 'One frigid afternoon when the Polar Vortex was in town, I dragged the Boyfriend Blanket onto the sofa, furry side up. I put myself and the cat on top, and wrestled the Napper into place over my shins.', 'Thus encumbered, the cat and I passed out.', 'Penelope Green is a reporter for Styles. She has been a reporter for the Home section, editor of Styles of The Times — an early iteration of Styles — and a story editor at the Times magazine.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Inside the Rise and Fall of a Multimillion-Dollar Airbnb Scheme
['Two apartments at 385 Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, Manhattan, were illegally offered through Airbnb, city officials said. According to a lawsuit, they were part of an enterprise that made more than $20 million in revenue.', 'Multiple misleading identities, more than 100 host accounts and 18 corporations were created to run an illegal hotel business in Manhattan, according to a lawsuit filed by the city.', 'Two apartments at 385 Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, Manhattan, were illegally offered through Airbnb, city officials said. According to a lawsuit, they were part of an enterprise that made more than $20 million in revenue.', 'From the outside, there was nothing especially notable about the small white building on the corner of a cobblestone street in TriBeCa. But until recently, it was a crucial location in a sprawling empire.', 'Two of the three apartments in the building were popular with tourists looking to stay in one of Manhattan’s most desirable neighborhoods — at $600 a night each, they were a bargain for a large group.', 'But they were also illegal — part of an elaborate real estate scheme to make millions by circumventing state and local laws and Airbnb’s own rules.', 'The plot was geared toward getting around city regulations that are intended to keep blocks of apartments from being turned into makeshift hotels that avoid lodging taxes and oversight.', 'Interviews and documents offer a glimpse at how the New York scheme worked. According to the suit, the ring used multiple misleading identities to dodge Airbnb’s rules, text tourists and book apartments to budget-minded travelers. Addresses were fudged to avoid scrutiny. A cadre of cleaners was apparently recruited through Facebook.', 'In all, more than 100 Airbnb host accounts and 18 corporations were created to run an illegal hotel business that stretched north from TriBeCa to SoHo, Gramercy, the Upper East Side and Harlem, according to a lawsuit brought by the city.', 'One apartment on Greenwich Street was advertised on Airbnb as “Beautiful Loft Prime Tribeca 4BR/2BA Sleep 10” for $600 a night.', 'New York regulations are supposed to keep apartments from being pulled out of an already-tight rental market to cater to the tourist trade. They specify that it is illegal to rent an entire apartment in most buildings for fewer than 30 days unless the permanent tenant is present while the renter is there.', 'Posting a unit that should not be listed on Airbnb is a civil offense, not a criminal one, and the city typically issues violations that can result in fines of thousands of dollars; lawsuits are filed in the most egregious of cases. In this lawsuit, the city is seeking more than $20 million from the defendants.', 'At the center of the scheme was Max Beckman, 35, a former real estate broker, according to the lawsuit. Mr. Beckman, who moved to the United States 18 years ago from Israel, was one of five people accused. There has not been a verdict, and the case is continuing.', 'Mr. Beckman agreed to be interviewed, making clear that he believed that he did nothing wrong.', 'What he did have was an ambitious, though risky, idea.', 'It was 2012 and Mr. Beckman, in his own telling, was struggling to make it as a real estate broker. He said he had a dismal credit score and $100 to his name when he used that money to pay the application fee for a one-bedroom on the Upper East Side.', 'He began renting it out, short term, to tourists through Airbnb and pocketed the difference after paying rent. It was a simple business model he would go on to replicate.', 'In 2015, Mr. Beckman quit his job as a real estate broker for Metropolitan Property Group, a brokerage firm in Manhattan, to devote himself full time to his Airbnb venture.', 'He persuaded two friends who were also brokers at the firm to become his partners, he said. The men, Alon Karasenty and Simon Itah, were also sued by the city. They did not respond to multiple requests for comment.', 'By the end of the year, the trio was managing dozens of listings on Airbnb, including large spaces in some of the city’s most sought-after neighborhoods — a penthouse overlooking Central Park, a loft in Chelsea — according to court documents.', 'The lawsuit alleged that Mr. Beckman’s former employer, Metropolitan Property Group, and its chief executive officer, Sami Katri, along with his wife, Shely Katri, were also involved.', 'Some of the 18 corporations that received payouts from Airbnb had been registered using Metropolitan Property Group’s office addresses. The suit also claimed the Katris’ names were linked to two Airbnb accounts and the utility bills for two apartments at 200 East 116th Street in East Harlem, where all seven units were on Airbnb.', 'The listing on Airbnb for a four-bedroom unit at 200 East 116th Street in East Harlem.', 'But Mr. Beckman said that the addresses were used without the company’s knowledge and that the Katris were not involved.', 'Mr. Katri, through his lawyer, said he had partnered with Mr. Karasenty and Mr. Itah to legally lease apartments at the East Harlem building, but was unaware they were rented out through Airbnb.', 'The scheme required leasing scores of apartments.', 'Some landlords claimed they were deceived, renting apartments to Mr. Beckman and his partners without knowing the units would be used as hotel rooms.', 'For example, Mr. Beckman signed leases for two apartments in another East Harlem building in late 2017, according to a separate lawsuit filed by the building’s owner last year.', 'A day after signing the lease, the apartments were on Airbnb under the host names “Cedric” and “Tom & Lisa,” the lawsuit said.', 'The rent for one apartment was $3,225, but it was on Airbnb for $250 a night. Hypothetically, Mr. Beckman could cover a month’s rent by filling it with tourists for about two weeks.', 'The owner of 78 East 119th Street in East Harlem sued Max Beckman after Mr. Beckman leased two apartments in the building and rented them to tourists through Airbnb.', 'In just a few months, Mr. Beckman had booked more than 500 guests and generated about $84,000 from the building at 78 East 119th Street, according to the city’s lawsuit.', 'Some residents in the 10-unit building grew annoyed by strangers constantly showing up with luggage.', 'The listing for an apartment in East Harlem. The city has argued that Airbnb has diminished the supply of housing available to full-time renters.', 'The city learned that the units were on Airbnb and slapped the landlord with violations last year, meaning daily fines that could have cost about $60,000, according to Gary Wachtel, a lawyer for Orsipel, the company that owns the building.', 'Airbnb has long said the majority of its hosts are everyday New Yorkers who rent out a spare bedroom or list their apartment while on a long vacation.', 'Still, the company has voluntarily taken down more than 5,000 commercial listings since late 2015. The city estimates that about one-third of listings on home-sharing websites are run by commercial operators; Airbnb disputes those numbers.', 'Under Airbnb’s “One Host, One Home” policy, New Yorkers can list only one apartment, with few exceptions.', 'But Mr. Beckman and his partners appear to have bypassed that policy by creating host accounts using different email addresses and multiple identities, including those of relatives and some with variations of the same name (“Jacob Itah” vs. “Jacob Itach”).', 'They also provided Airbnb with incorrect or incomplete addresses for apartments to avoid scrutiny, according to the city’s lawsuit.', 'Josh Meltzer, the head of public policy for Airbnb in the Northeast, condemned the behavior and acknowledged the limitations of the company’s rules, which he said were intended as a short-term remedy.', 'The mayor and other politicians have argued that Airbnb listings diminish the supply of apartments available to full-time renters, making the city’s affordable housing crisis even worse.', 'But Mr. Beckman said that he never rented out rent-stabilized units and that his listings did not take apartments away from low-income New Yorkers. The majority of the units were high-end apartments in expensive neighborhoods, he said.', 'Ultimately, Mr. Beckman believes the city’s tourism industry could benefit if lawmakers allow apartments to be offered on Airbnb and taxed like hotels.', 'For him, the proof is that he and his associates made it work.', 'At its peak, the city claimed, the business run by Mr. Beckman and his partners booked tens of thousands of guests for 55,331 nights over three years across 35 different buildings.', 'Six buildings each generated more than $1 million in revenue; the top-earner was a residential building in Kips Bay that brought in about $1.8 million, according to the city.', 'At the beginning, Mr. Beckman said, he decorated the apartments with used furniture, but later was able to afford an interior designer.', 'He was also able to employ 15 housekeepers who roamed Manhattan tidying up the apartments, he said.', 'Indeed, most tourists left positive ratings in listings reviewed by The New York Times, although a few lobbed complaints.', 'The Airbnb listing for an apartment at 385 Greenwich Street. Mr. Beckman said his listings did not take units away from low-income New Yorkers.', 'Ms. Swift said she felt unsafe when someone entered the apartment to replace a couch without notice while she was away. She realized the apartment above hers was also a faux hotel after she saw three different groups cycle in and out during her 10-day stay.', 'The lease for one of the apartments in the TriBeCa building was signed by Mr. Beckman and his two partners, and the monthly rent checks of $25,000 for both units were mostly paid by different corporations connected to the men, according to court documents.', 'The landlord, a company presided over by Charles Cohen, terminated the lease in March as a result of the short-term rentals, the lawsuit said. But, according to court documents, Mr. Cohen continued to receive monthly checks until the end of 2018, and the apartments were on Airbnb’s website as late as a few weeks ago.', 'It was unclear whether landlords were typically aware of the Airbnb operations in their buildings, and Mr. Beckman refused to comment on the matter.', 'Mr. Cohen, who appeared to have leased apartments in other buildings where the partners listed Airbnbs, did not respond to multiple requests for comment.', 'All seven apartments in a building at 200 East 116th Street in East Harlem were offered on Airbnb.', 'One night in early January, a police sergeant showed up outside Mr. Beckman’s apartment to serve him with a notice that the city was going to sue him.', 'Mr. Beckman was not home, so the sergeant left the notice with his wife.', 'Since then, Mr. Beckman, who has two children, has been huddling with his lawyers and shuttering his Airbnb operations, terminating dozens of apartment leases.', 'The city also sued five buildings for not cracking down on Airbnbs managed by Mr. Beckman and his partners despite violations issued by the city.', 'Abington Properties, the owner of three of the buildings, did not reply to multiple requests for comment. A secretary for Helm Management, which runs the East Harlem building that became a de facto hotel, said the company did not comment on pending litigation.', 'Mr. Beckman said he intended to reach a settlement with the city, even if that meant paying a hefty fine. He said that, despite the lawsuit, he spoke to The Times because he thought the city had unfairly portrayed him as a criminal.', 'Now, he said, his sights were on “legal new ventures.” Asked to elaborate, he said he was starting a business to sell electric scooters, which are illegal to ride on New York City streets, but could be legalized by the City Council soon.', 'Derek M. Norman contributed reporting. Doris Burke contributed research.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Watch: Rapid fire with Rujuta Diwekar
["Rujuta Diwekar is an acclaimed nutritionist and diet coach to the stars. She helped Kareena Kapoor get into the shape everybody envied! With the ways she preaches the health benefits of desi food, she has a lot of fans.  She sat down for an exclusive interview with us where we conducted a fun rapid-fire session with her. She answered all the burning questions, choosing her favourite and the healthiest option from dal chawal, salads, ghee, oil, milk, haldi, green tea and everybody's favourite adrak vali chai! In an effort to connect people with their roots and make a healthier choice, she is helping people stay in shape, one day at a time. From saying no to the latest fads, crash dieting and recommending an internet fasting to detox the body, Rujuta preaches an important mantra- only eat what passes the famous grandmother test.  Simply said, desi Indian ghar ka khaana is the best for you.Watch this video to know more!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Fitness rapid fire with Claudia Ciesla
["Claudia Ciesla has been in the industry for long and is a certified nutritionist and wellness coach, with a book to her name, 'Keep Eating Keep Losing'. The actress maintains such a fit body, you cannot help but envy her. In case you think that Claudia eats clean and healthy all the time, think again. She is just a foodie like you and me! We caught up with the actress in an exclusive interview where she talked about her fitness secrets, what she likes to cheat on and her favourite workout routine. We conducted a special fitness rapid fire with the former Bigg Boss contestant and quizzed her on many secrets. She also revealed that she has a sweet tooth and can't say no to Indian sweets like ladoo and Barfi! She also revealed who among Bollywood she considers the fittest and the strongest. She is also a great supporter of yoga and meditation and considers it as one of the biggest things which have helped her stay fit. To know more, watch the video!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Make your own cough syrup at home
["Suffering from a severe bout of cold and cough that just won’t go away? Is your nose so congested that you are not able to breathe properly and your voice sounds like a croaked frog? Battling cough is especially annoying if you have an important presentation or meeting coming up. After all, you want people to take you seriously, instead of paying attention to your croaked voice. While the weather continues to get worst (hello chilly winters), there is no escape from sneezing co-workers and coughing commuters.So, if you have been struggling with a terrible cough for the last few days, we may have the perfect solution for you. (You don't have to step out of the comfort of your home)Try these DIY cough syrup remedies and you will be good to go!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Nutritionist Kavita Devgan's diabetes prevention diet
["Diabetes is the biggest lifestyle problem we are facing today. We all think of ways to keep ourselves at bay but can it actually be cured? We spoke to nutritionist Kavita Devgan who busted some myths for you about suggests a diet plan which can be easily followed by everyone. According to her, diabetes cannot be cured but you can easily cut down your risk and prevent the disease by following a rich and nutritious diet. She also listed down 6 foods which are known to fight diabetes at the root level and keep your body fit. According to her, you should absolutely include foods like Barley, spinach, apples, egg yolk, nuts and seeds as well as spices which contain plenty of vitamins and proteins which increase insulin production.Barley, which has a high fibre contain delays digestion and in doing so, stops the sugar levels from spiking up. Rich veggies and fruits like apples and spinach have high Vitamin A and magnesium content in them which keep the body healthy. Also, make sure to have egg yolk in your everyday diet which has a high Omega3 and DHA levels which cut down inflammation and ultimately reduce the diabetes risk. Again, there is a very valid reason why you shouldn't be skipping out on nuts and seeds on your diet. They contain a lot of important vitamins like globulins, L-arginine, resveratrol and good anti-oxidants which keep the risk away. So, it's time you make a healthy choice with your diet if you want to keep diabetes away.", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', 'Did you know that while building this wonder fo the world, Gustave Eiffel had put a small secret apartment inside it. Only the lucky few had access—Thomas Edison was one such VIP. Located on the third level of the tower, Eiffel’s private apartment was not large, but it was cozy. The apartment is on display for visitors to come and peer into through windows.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Weekly Books News (Feb 4-10)
["Watch this week's top books news!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?
["If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", 'Watch this fun video and share it now!', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Valentine's Day Special: 3 ways to use a red lipstick
['Love red lipstick? Try our make-up look using one red lipstick for the love season!', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


10 early signs of pregnancy
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!
["Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!", "Take a look at all the seven days of the Valentine's week.", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", 'Valentine’s Day 2019: Here’s how people are planning to celebrate V-Day!', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Virat's V-Day post for Anushka will give you some serious relationship goals!", "Jacqueline's celebrates V-day with her team!"]


Get New Year ready with this homemade weight loss drink
['One of most awaited parties of the year is not so far away. With not many days left in hand, we all will reach out to fad diets that promise to make us lose weight in a short time. But fad diets, as we all know, do more harm than good. They may help you lose weight but may compromise on your immunity and overall health. Experts and doctors recommend not to follow fad diets under any condition. Then what should one do? A healthy and balanced diet along with regular exercise definitely helps one with healthy weight loss. But with just 10 days to go for the New year party, this would not be enough.Here’s the video of a detox drink that promises to make you lose belly fat and makes you overall fit if consumed for one week regularly before bedtime.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Nine Key Questions About the Green New Deal
['Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, right, announcing the resolution on Feb. 7.', 'Want climate news in your inbox?', 'A Green New Deal is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.', 'What is the Green New Deal?', 'The Green New Deal is a congressional resolution that lays out a grand plan for tackling climate change.', 'Introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats, the proposal calls on the federal government to wean the United States from fossil fuels and curb planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions across the economy. It also aims to guarantee new high-paying jobs in clean energy industries.', 'The resolution is nonbinding, so even if Congress approves it, nothing in the proposal would become law.', 'Variations of the proposal have been around for years.', 'Ms.', 'Will there be a vote on it?', 'Yes.', 'Republicans have cast the Green New Deal as a socialist takeover and say it is evidence that Democrats are far from the mainstream on energy issues.', 'Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, plans to bring the plan to the floor as early as next week. Democrats say that the vote would be a stunt because Republican Senate leaders do not want to have a sincere debate about climate change.', 'What problem is the Green New Deal addressing?', 'Oil refineries near Norco, La. The Green New Deal calls on the federal government to wean the United States from fossil fuels.', 'The goal of the Green New Deal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to avoid the worst consequences of climate change while also trying to fix societal problems like economic inequality and racial injustice.', 'Subscribe today for free.', 'Supporters of the Green New Deal also believe that change can’t just be a technological feat, and say it must also tackle poverty, income inequality and racial discrimination.', 'A Green New Deal Is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.', 'What are its main provisions?', 'The Green New Deal calls on the federal government to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, create high-paying jobs, ensure that clean air, clean water and healthy food are basic human rights, and end all forms of oppression.', 'To achieve those goals, the plan calls for the launch of a “10-year mobilization” to reduce carbon emissions in the United States. It envisions sourcing 100 percent of the country’s electricity from renewable and zero-emissions power, digitizing the nation’s power grid, upgrading every building in the country to be more energy-efficient, and overhauling the nation’s transportation system by investing in electric vehicles and high-speed rail.', 'To address social justice, the resolution says it is the duty of the government to provide job training and new economic development, particularly to communities that currently rely on jobs in fossil fuel industries.', 'What doesn’t it say?', 'The resolution doesn’t do any of those things.', 'The resolution itself also steers clear of endorsing or rejecting specific technologies or sources of energy, something that Mr. Markey said was done purposefully to encourage broader support for the plan.', 'What’s with the name?', 'The Green New Deal takes its name and inspiration from the major government makeover, known as the New Deal, launched by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to help the United States recover from the Great Depression.', 'That series of public-works programs and financial reforms included the Civilian Conservation Corps (which put people to work in manual labor jobs like planting trees and constructing park trails) and the creation of the Public Works Administration to work on the construction of bridges, dams, schools and more.', 'Like the original New Deal, the Green New Deal is not a single project or piece of legislation.', 'What are the costs?', 'That’s not clear yet.', 'President Trump claimed it would cost $100 trillion. Supporters of the Green New Deal say climate change could be equally costly to the American economy. For now it’s impossible to pin down dollar figures on the plan.', 'Modernizing the electrical grid across the United States could cost as much as $476 billion, yet reap $2 trillion in benefits, according to a 2011 study issued by the Electric Power Research Institute.', 'Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has acknowledged that the Green New Deal is going to be expensive, but contends the plan will pay for itself through economic growth.', 'Do critics offer alternative proposals?', 'How will the Green New Deal shape the debate?', 'At the same time, all of the attention on the Green New Deal has put new pressure on Republican critics to come up with their own plan for cutting greenhouse gases.', 'It is likely that the Green New Deal will remain a lightning rod throughout the 2020 presidential campaign.', 'Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: The World’s Largest Bee Is Not Extinct
['An expedition of conservationists found a living Wallace’s Giant Bee on remote islands in Indonesia. It hadn’t been seen since 1981.', 'Wallace’s giant bee, shown here with a honeybee for scale, has a wingspan of more than 2.5 inches and a body the size of a thumb.', 'It’s been 38 years since scientists last spotted the insect known as Wallace’s Giant Bee, a rare species found only in a group of Indonesian islands called the North Moluccas. With a wingspan of 2.5 inches and a body the size of a human thumb, it’s considered the world’s largest bee, and was feared extinct.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'The discovery did not come easily. Despite the bee’s size, its rarity, remote location and nesting habits make it difficult to find.', 'The bees make their homes by digging holes in the nests of tree-dwelling termites, where they spend much of their time hiding.', 'Photographer Clay Bolt, left, and a guide, Iswan, photographing the Megachile pluto nest in the North Moluccas of Indonesia.', 'Though Wallace didn’t seem particularly interested in the bee — he devoted only a single line to it in his journal — it became something of an obsession among biologists. The next sighting didn’t come until 1981, when Adam Messer, an entomologist, observed several in the wild and returned home with a handful of specimens that are now held in the American Museum of Natural History in New York, the Natural History Museum in London and other institutions.', 'Dr. Messer observed that the bees use their unusually large mandibles to scrape together balls of tree resin and wood to fortify their nests, and that they are relatively solitary animals.', 'Simon Robson of the University of Sydney with the live specimen, the first time a living Megachile pluto has been photographed and videotaped.', 'The plan now is for the team to return to the island and conduct more extensive research, but “that will involve making links with local scientists in the area and getting permission to go and work with them,” said Dr. Robson.', 'Can You Pick the Bees Out of This Insect Lineup?', 'Do Bees Know Nothing?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: Sleepless Flies Lived Long Lives. Why Not Us?
['Sleepless Flies Lived Long Lives. Why Not Us?', 'Sleepless Flies Lived Long Lives. Why Not Us?', 'Flies deprived of sleep didn’t see reductions in their life spans. Does that mean we’ve got sleep deprivation all wrong?', 'Researchers developed a system for monitoring fruit flies kept track of their movements with cameras and used tiny motors that would tip the flies any time they went still for 20 seconds.', 'Sleep — that absurd, amazing habit of losing consciousness for hours on end — is so universal across the animal kingdom that we usually assume it is essential to survival. Now, however, scientists who repeatedly disturbed the sleep of more than a thousand fruit flies are reporting that less slumber may be necessary for sustaining life than previously thought, at least in one species.', 'A handful of studies involving dogs and cockroaches going back to the late 19th century suggest that being deprived of sleep can result in a shortened life span. But the methods behind some of these studies can make it difficult to say whether the test subjects were harmed by sleep deprivation itself, or by the stress of the treatment they were given — such as being shaken constantly.', 'The new study took a milder approach, in hope of seeing the true effects of sleep deprivation. The automated system the researchers developed for monitoring the flies kept track of their movements with cameras, scoring any extended period without movement as sleep. When they were not being awakened repeatedly, the males slept about 10 hours a day, females about five on average.', 'To keep the flies awake, the researchers equipped the system with tiny motors that would gently tip the flies any time they went still for at least 20 seconds. With this method, researchers deprived flies of rest over the course of their entire lifetimes, tipping them hundreds of times a day such that if they were snoozing during those periods of stillness, they might have been able to sleep around 2.5 hours a day on average.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'While female flies in the experiment died about ten days sooner than other flies, male flies had completely normal life spans of about 50 days. Dr. Gilestro suggests that perhaps whatever sleep is doing in the way of essential maintenance can happen in a very, very short period of time, such that little sleep is required to keep an organism alive.', 'The study has limitations. It looked at only a single strain of fruit fly, said Dragana Rogulja, a professor at Harvard who studies sleep using fruit flies. “In principle, I think it would be have been awesome to test multiple strains,” she said, to understand whether other flies, some of which can live much longer, respond similarly.', 'Additionally, not everyone agrees that the scientists have succeeded in accurately recording when the flies are awake or asleep. Some periods in which flies made tiny movements were scored as waking time, for instance.', 'Dr. Gilestro countered that these movements are not the same as the twitches that occur while animals are asleep.', 'The flies walked around in between the recorded small movements, and they appeared to be feeding or grooming at those times.', 'The work touches on an interesting question: how much does the length of time spent asleep connect to sleep’s beneficial effects? For most of us, knowing exactly how much sleep you need to be healthy is likely to remain of academic interest. The unpleasant effects of missing even a couple hours, or being awakened even a couple times during the night, tend to discourage experimentation. But it’s intriguing to think that perhaps some of that time spent asleep matters less than the rest of it.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


styles Q. AND A.: Where Is Carine Roitfeld Now? Making Perfume
['The longtime editor of Vogue Paris strips down to advertise seven new scents.', 'Ms. Roitfeld near her office on Avenue Montaigne in Paris.', 'They will be placed in hot spots all over the city. No model, fashion editor or tourist will be able to escape them. A team has been hired to put up new posters if the first ones are vandalized or covered up.', 'Ms. Roitfeld, 64, has long been a ubiquitous force during the shows here. As the editor in chief of Vogue Paris for 10 years and, later, the founder of CR Fashion Book, she was a front-row regular. Her parties are known for being the most exclusive and elaborate, attracting celebrities like Lady Gaga and Kim Kardashian West.', 'But in those roles she was still somewhat in the background: an editor and influencer, not the main event. Now that’s about to change.', 'They will retail for $285 apiece on Net-a-Porter beginning Monday, May 6 (coincidentally the same day that her rumored longtime rival, Anna Wintour, hosts the Met Gala). Ms. Roitfeld hopes the perfumes will be the beginning of a long line of products that will perpetuate her personal brand and legacy.', 'We had questions.', 'Tell us about the teaser posters. Are you ready for your nude photo to be all over Paris?', 'The photo was actually taken as a joke. It was two years ago, and my daughter was just taking photos of me for fun. But then I thought it might be perfect for this. I asked my son and business partner, Vladimir, if it was O.K., because sometimes I go too far.', 'I like to push. I’m not afraid. I’m following in the footsteps of some notable perfumes. Opium by Yves Saint Laurent. To call something Opium today would be forbidden. Look at Tom Ford; he had naked people in all of his pictures. A lot of people refused to put it in the magazine, but with French Vogue we did. I love the aesthetic.', 'What is the best and worst thing somebody could say about it?', 'The best thing somebody could say about it is you have a good body or you are fearless.', 'If they say “I don’t like your butt,” I don’t care. When you become a public figure you get so many butt comments on Instagram. But I don’t want anyone to think I’m pretentious. Of course I’m a bit of an exhibitionist; that I will accept. But if someone says: “Who do you think you are?” That I would not like.', 'Do you have a favorite Paris Fashion Week memory?', 'For the 90th anniversary of Paris Vogue we held the first masked ball. I copied it after the Truman Capote ball, and I tried to be at that level; I think we beat it. The girls wore the most eccentric dresses. It was a dream, dream, dream party.', 'Stone had a huge mask on for the cover of the issue, and Philip Treacy left with a big poster of her at 2 a.m.', 'Then when I launched CR Fashion Book at Raspoutine, a nightclub, we had a vampire ball. It was so exciting because everyone came for me not just because I was with Vogue. It made me happy because you don’t know if you will disappear.', 'I remember John Galliano called me on the phone before the party and said he can’t be there, but he might be the vampire that comes and bites my neck at midnight.', 'Ms. Roitfeld hopes to create other products that will perpetuate her personal brand.', 'What are you most excited about this year?', 'What will be the best show? I cannot say that, I have too many friends in fashion. But of course Chanel is always a dream. Paris Fashion Week is the greatest. I’m so happy to be home. I know people, and we are speaking French. It’s great.', 'But of course Paris has changed a lot, and it’s now very young and international. Before people looked like they were attending a meeting of Congress. Now the new kids come in crazy dressed, and it’s much more fun to look at.', 'Why did you decide to do a perfume?', 'I did a lot of collaborations, a lot of magazines, but it was always something transient. If you don’t like a magazine, thank God, there is another one coming out in three weeks. But for me perfume is a way to have a legacy. Like Miss Chanel. Chanel No. 5 has been around for almost 100 years.', 'I’ve always been very sensitive to smell. I entered a competition one time to test hundreds of vodkas blindly. I knew which one was which based on the smell.', 'Why are they modeled after seven lovers?', 'I worked 10 years with French Vogue, and I knew with advertising it was really hard to talk about perfume. If you show the bottle you look like an advertisement. If you talk about the smell, it’s very difficult to understand smell with words. So with this perfume we decided to have a story behind the perfume.', 'Seven is also my lucky number. If I get an extra lover somewhere I didn’t expect I guess I will have to do more, but this is a starting point.', 'The lovers of the perfume are just fantasies; I came up with them with my cup of tea in bed. I’m much more boring than people think I am. I would love to be like that, to be fun, but I’m really not.', 'Are any of them named after real people?', 'Lawrence, the Dubai perfume, is named after “Lawrence of Arabia.” I discovered all the ways to protect from the sun from that movie. It’s my favorite.', 'Was making perfume harder or easier than you thought?', 'I thought it would be cool to make a perfume, but it’s not cool. There are so many rules and regulations to make sure it doesn’t burn your skin. And they change across countries. In some places you can’t use alcohol, but George has weed base in it.', 'This interview has been edited and condensed.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Critic’s Notebook: President Trump Has Inspired Art. That’s Not Always a Good Thing.
['President Trump Has Inspired Art. That’s Not Always a Good Thing.', 'President Trump Has Inspired Art. That’s Not Always a Good Thing.', 'In “Ivanka Vacuuming,” the artist Jennifer Rubell hired an Ivanka Trump look-alike to clean in a former art gallery in Washington.', 'Sandow Birk’s Trumpagruel #5 from “The Horrible & Terrible Deeds & Words of the Very Renowned Trumpagruel” (2017).', 'A projection by the artist Robin Bell on the side of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 30, 2018.', 'That may be what’s missing from so much Trump art today — the critical introspection to accompany the laughter. Mr. Guston’s drawings and paintings are intimate, as if he were grappling with the reality of Mr. Nixon’s existence. The process of making them was fraught, both politically and artistically; only a handful were shown in the following decades (Mr. Guston died in 1980). I don’t mean to suggest that contemporary artists like Ms. Bernstein and Mr. Birk don’t know the stakes of our time — I’m sure they do — but hanging on the white walls of galleries, for the eyes of a largely liberal, self-selecting public, caricatures of President Trump feel safe. Creators and viewers alike get validation, rather than a prompt for examination or self-reflection.', 'Part of the trouble may also be with the form. When you have a president whom many people already view as a caricature, representing him as such loses some of its disruptive power. As with Ms. Rubell’s performance, you end up with familiar images and generalized meanings. What would it look like to make art about the Trumps without their likeness? How might it create different aesthetic and political possibilities?', 'An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the project titled “Ivanka Vacuuming.” There was one look-alike model vacuuming, not several. The error was repeated in a picture caption.', 'Is Donald Trump, Wall-Builder-in-Chief, a Conceptual Artist?', 'Painting Shows Trump Hanging Out With Lincoln and Nixon. He Loves It.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Critic’s Notebook: The Lustful Middle School Girl Rises
['In the middle school of the American collective imagination, packs of filthy-minded boys stalk the halls, snapping bras and howling at the cliff’s edge of puberty. The sex-obsessed adolescent girl is a rarer breed. More often girls are positioned as victims of raging male hormones, or else they are styled as preternaturally mature, rising above the boys and their juvenile misadventures. Now — in “PEN15,” the film “Eighth Grade” and the Netflix animated comedy “Big Mouth” — the lustful adolescent girl is having her moment.', 'The sex-obsessed adolescent girl is a rarer breed in the pop-culture portrayal of middle school, but shows like “PEN15” (starring Anna Konkle, left) are giving her a moment.', 'It is not, to be clear, an altogether glorious time. At least, it’s not for the girls themselves. Trapped in the years between childhood and adulthood, they are realizing that women are valued for their sex appeal, but do not yet know how to look or feel sexy. They think about boys constantly, but aren’t actually ready to touch them. They pursue sex and romance aggressively, but almost exclusively in their imaginations.', 'Though polished and popular girls — fitted with thongs, coated in lip gloss and paired with boyfriends — exist in their worlds, they might as well belong to a different species. Our girls are awkward and weird. They are undergoing orthodontic treatments. They have made out with every bedpost and doorframe in their bedrooms.', 'Knowing that Elsie Fisher, the star of “Eighth Grade,” was in the same life stage as her character when filming only magnifies the movie’s anxious, claustrophobic feel.', 'In the second episode of “PEN15,” Maya finds herself in a closet make-out scenario with a boy, and when she unclamps her dripping retainer from her mouth, the boy flashes a look of such genuine disgust that you can’t help but feel empathy for both parties. We have seen a version of this dynamic before — it is a staple of the teen movie (à la “She’s All That” and “Never Been Kissed”) for the popular kid to be forced into intimate contact with a loser — but here our alliances have shifted. While it’s clear that Maya has been unfairly ranked in the middle school sexual hierarchy — her “Ace Ventura” impression is criminally underrated — we also recognize that on some level, she is not ready to kiss a boy. And the boy, for his part, seems neither overly judgmental nor indiscriminately sex-obsessed. Through him we see that girls can be revolting, too.', 'The central conceit of “Big Mouth” — pubescent kids are visited by animated hormone monsters — helps to situate its boys and girls as equals.', 'Often tween boys and girls are isolated into separate spheres, portrayed as alien to each other and to adults. But these properties reveal much of adolescent culture that can be shared. When Kayla in “Eighth Grade” finally connects with a boy, it is over their mutual love of the Adult Swim animated comedy “Rick and Morty.” “PEN15” gets its name from the PEN15 Club — a made-up institution that exists to trick other kids to write “penis” on their hands — and the show reveals that such juvenile antics are not exclusive to one gender.', 'In “PEN15,” the 30-something creators, Konkle (left) and Maya Erskine, play seventh-grade best friends with an absurd and haunting realism.', 'Though these are all comedies, they take their horny girls quite seriously. In “PEN15,” the adults who play Maya and Anna are supported by a cast of real middle schoolers. This could easily be played as a sight gag, but instead the choice resonates deeply. It works to punctuate the moment when girls’ growth spurts send them towering over boys, and it dramatizes Maya and Anna’s outsider status at an age when kids seem capable of sniffing out difference on a cellular level.', 'The hyper-realistic style of “Eighth Grade” delivers its own emotional gut punch. The 14-year-old Kayla is played by Elsie Fisher, who was herself 14 when she shot the film. Though Kayla makes YouTube videos for an audience in the single digits, and Fisher is a professional performer, knowing that character and actor are both stuck in the same life stage only magnifies the film’s anxious, claustrophobic feel. Jessi of “Big Mouth” is, of course, a cartoon, which allows the character to careen dramatically between adolescence and maturity. When she gets her period on a field trip to the Statue of Liberty, she is a steel cage of emotional control, but the second she enters her mother’s car after school, she melts into a sub-verbal puddle.', 'New technologies are typically framed as accelerators for the sexual corruption of girls, but here their risks are linked inextricably to great rewards. For the girls of “PEN15,” who together pretend to be a “hot” 26-year-old woman in a chat room, AOL is a portal to disembodied sexual exploration, a way to digitally map out imaginary adult sex lives without actually exposing them to stranger danger. And though it can be painful to watch Kayla lying in her dark bedroom, mainlining her classmates’ Instagram feeds on her phone, it is merely an embodied version of the fantasies that have always thrilled and haunted middle school girls. The “Big Mouth” indifference to technology is its own form of commentary: Social media, it seems to say, just can’t compete with the wild physical and emotional forces of adolescence.', 'Even for a woman who was once a girl like them — I, too, practiced kissing the back of my hand when my mouth was jammed with wires and rubber bands — there can be a frisson of anxiety to actually seeing their private moments revealed onscreen. The default pop cultural perspective remains that of the adult man, and from his vantage point, exposing adolescent female sexuality onscreen can feel predatory or perverted. These comedies have little interest in considering how those men will feel when they are transported into a girl’s bedroom. Girls’ feelings matter, too. And these girls feel so much.', 'An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the surname of one of the actresses. As the article noted, she is Maya Erskine, not Maya Ishii-Peters, which is her character’s name.', 'Why Must I Be a Tween In Lust?', 'Nick Kroll Still Isn’t Over Puberty. Just Ask His Therapist.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: Why Do Zebras Have Stripes? Scientists Camouflaged Horses to Find Out
['If you spend time around horses or flies, you might want to invest in some zebra print.', 'Those stripes might be some of nature’s most effective insect repellent.', 'What’s black, white and striped all over — except for its head?', 'Horses wearing zebra coats on a farm in Britain.', 'The animals weren’t attending a masquerade. They were dressed for studies investigating a mystery that has puzzled scientists for more than a century.', 'Wallace were theorizing about evolution, scientists have debated the function of this sassy animal print. It’s been called camouflage to confuse big predators, an identity signal to other zebras and a kind of wearable air conditioner. Now most scientists agree that the function of a zebra’s stripes is to ward off biting flies that can carry deadly diseases.', 'But what exactly is it about a zebra’s wardrobe that flies don’t like?', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'A horse dressed as a zebra to investigate fly behavior in England.', 'The flies pestered all of the horses and the zebras in the paddocks equally. But once they got close, the zebra stripes seemed to dazzle the flies so much that they couldn’t manage a controlled landing. Flies zoomed in too fast and either veered off just in time — or simply bumped into the zebra and bounced off. The flies didn’t seem to like the zebra coats on horses, either, but their bare heads were fair game.', 'The only thing they can say for certain is that the high contrast between black and white most likely tricks the fly’s low-resolution vision, which relies on sensing movement.', 'In an optical illusion called the barber pole, diagonal stripes appear to move up or down, depending on which way the pole is rotating. Something similar could be happening as flies approach zebra stripes. From afar, the fly may interpret the object as gray, but as it moves closer, the zebra’s diagonal stripes may appear to be moving in false directions. As a result, a fly may think it’s headed toward open space instead of landing. Or perhaps the sudden appearance of stripes may overload the fly’s vision and startle it into a buzzing stupor.', 'The researchers are now conducting tests with coats of different patterns, contrasts and thickness, to see just what it is about the stripes that stops the flies. “By playing around with those variables, we’ll be able to get inside the head of the fly, or the eye of the fly, to work out what’s sort of confusing to it,” said Dr. Caro.', 'In the meantime, people planning on being around horses or horse flies may want to consider wearing zebra print rather than a solid to avoid being bitten. You should probably make your horse a twinsie, too.', 'What’s Black and White and Travels 310 Miles?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


White House Climate Panel to Include a Climate Denialist
['Water from recent heavy rainstorms breached a levee in Novato, Calif., on Feb. 14.', 'Want climate news in your inbox?', 'WASHINGTON — President Trump is preparing to establish a panel to examine whether climate change affects national security, despite existing reports from his own government showing that global warming is a growing threat.', 'Happer, whose views are sharply at odds with the established scientific consensus that carbon dioxide pollution is dangerous for the planet.', 'William Happer, a physicist serving as President Trump’s deputy assistant for emerging technologies, has said carbon dioxide is beneficial to humanity.', 'Scientists defended the research already conducted by the government. “The link between climate science and national security has been closely studied for over a decade at the highest levels of the U.S. government — by scientists, the Defense Department and intelligence agencies — and all those studies have made a strong case that various aspects of climate change have an effect on national security,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton.', 'Critics focused on the appointment of Dr. Happer to the panel given his public history of denying established climate science.', 'Dr. Happer suggested to the purported funders that he not be paid directly. “My activities to push back against climate extremism are a labor of love,” he wrote.', 'How to Cut U.S. Emissions Faster? Do What These Countries Are Doing.', 'How the United States could cut emissions in half, using policies that other countries already have in place.', 'The peer-reviewed reports, researched over several years, were published by more than 13 federal agencies alongside dozens of academic researchers. Dr. Oppenheimer scoffed at the White House’s contention that the reports had not gone undergone rigorous peer review.', 'In addition to those reports, the Pentagon has commissioned and funded scientific research on the impact of climate change and sea-level rise, in order to plan for the effects on low-lying military installations.', 'For example, the report suggested that a string of South Pacific islands that is home to the Ronald Reagan Ballistic Missile Defense Test Site, which operates space weapons programs and tracks NASA research, could be uninhabitable by as soon as 2035 because of rising sea levels.', 'That Pentagon-funded research came after more than a decade of major military and scientific studies, dating back to the George W. Bush administration, that linked climate change to national security threats.', 'Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.', 'Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Measles Outbreak: Your Questions Answered
['One in 10 children with measles gets an ear infection, which can lead to permanent deafness.', 'What is measles?', 'Measles is an extremely contagious virus. It can cause serious respiratory symptoms, fever and rash. In some cases, especially in babies and young children, the consequences can be severe. Measles killed 110,000 people globally in 2017, mostly children under 5.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'How is measles transmitted?', 'Measles is transmitted by droplets from an infected person’s nose or mouth. If you’re in a room with someone infected with measles, you can inhale their virus when they cough, sneeze or even talk. Infected people can transmit the measles virus starting four days before they develop a rash, so they may be contagious before they realize they have the disease. They remain able to spread the virus for about four days after the rash appears.', 'What are the symptoms of measles?', 'But after two or three days of that, fever spikes to 104 or 105 degrees and the telltale red dots appear on the skin, first on the face, then spreading down the body.', 'Abel Zhang, 1, being helped back into his clothes by his mother, Wenyi Zhang, center, his grandmother, Ding Hong, left, and Dr. Lauren Lawler, after receiving inoculations for measles, mumps and rubella at a clinic in Seattle.', 'Is there a cure for measles?', 'No. The vast majority of people who contract measles haven’t been vaccinated, and giving them the measles vaccine within 72 hours of being exposed to the virus might help — at least by reducing the severity and duration of the symptoms. The Mayo Clinic says that pregnant women, babies and people with weak immune systems can receive an injection of antibodies called immune serum globulin within six days of being exposed to measles, which might prevent or lessen the symptoms.', 'How safe and effective is the measles vaccine?', 'Children should receive two doses of the vaccine: the first when they are 12 to 15 months old; the second when they are between 4 and 6 years old. If infants who are between 6 and 11 months old are about to travel from the United States to another country, the C.D.C. recommends they receive one dose of the vaccine beforehand.', 'People who don’t get the vaccine are at very high risk for contracting measles. “Almost everyone who has not had the MMR shot will get measles if they are exposed to the measles virus,” the C.D.C. says.', 'If I’m not vaccinated, is it too late to get the shot?', 'If most people are getting vaccinated, why does it matter if I don’t vaccinate my child?', 'You are probably thinking of the concept of herd immunity, which means that if a large number of people are protected from a disease by a vaccine, the disease will be less likely to circulate, diminishing the risk for people who are unvaccinated. The threshold for herd immunity varies by disease — for a highly contagious disease, a very high percentage of people need to be vaccinated to meet that threshold.', 'In a hypothetical community where nobody has immunity from the measles virus, one infected person might infect 12 to 18 people, who might each infect another 12 to 18 people. At this rate, a small outbreak would quickly grow out of control.', 'In a hypothetical community where nobody has immunity from the measles virus, one infected person might infect 12 to 18 people, who might each infect another 12 to 18 people. At this rate, a small outbreak would quickly grow out of control.', 'In a hypothetical community where nobody has immunity from the measles virus, one infected person might infect 12 to 18 people, who might each infect another 12 to 18 people. At this rate, a small outbreak would quickly grow out of control.', 'In a hypothetical community where nobody has immunity from the measles virus, one infected person might infect 12 to 18 people, who might each infect another 12 to 18 people. At this rate, a small outbreak would quickly grow out of control.', 'Wait, didn’t we eliminate measles?', 'In 2000, measles was declared eliminated from the United States because the country had gone for more than 12 months without any “continuous disease transmission” within its borders. “Eliminated” doesn’t mean the disease was completely eradicated; it means the United States no longer had any places where the disease was endemic or homegrown.', 'Most of the American cases since 2000 have been the result of people traveling to or from countries where measles is endemic because there is little vaccination.', 'How many people haven’t been vaccinated?', 'Who are the people not getting vaccinated?', 'Generally, those who do not immunize their children are demographically more white and more educated, Dr. De St. Maurice said. “In part due to the success of vaccines, people are not as familiar with these diseases, so they question their effectiveness,” she said. Conversely, when the disease reappears, as it did in Washington, demand for vaccines rises.', 'Don’t states have laws requiring parents to vaccinate their children?', 'Signs warning patients at a clinic in Vancouver, Wash.', 'Are the states with lax laws the ones with the most measles cases?', 'There have not been enough cases to warrant a major survey, but Dr. Saad Omer of the Emory Vaccine Center in Atlanta warned that with a rising number of cases, that could change.', 'Dr. Omer, who studies immunization coverage and disease incidence, said research had shown that states that allow more exemptions have increased pertussis (whooping cough) outbreaks.', 'Studies have also shown that people who refuse vaccines are disproportionately represented in the early stage of outbreaks. “They’re providing the tinder that can start the fires of the epidemics,” Dr. Omer said.', 'How does the U.S. compare with other countries?', 'Canada, Britain and Switzerland are a few of the Western countries that are below 90 percent.', 'Worldwide cases of measles have increased 30 percent since 2016, the World Health Organization said last year.', 'Does this mean mumps and rubella cases are re-emerging, too?', 'C.D.C., and cases have increased in recent years, from 229 in 2012 to 6,366 in 2016.', 'Rubella used to cause millions of infections in the United States.', 'According to the C.D.C.', 'Rubella was declared eliminated in the United States in 2004, and the C.D.C. says that fewer than 10 cases are reported each year. But, as with measles and mumps, there are still many countries where it persists because of lack of vaccination, and every case since 2012 has been traced to people infected while traveling or living in another country.', 'Pam Belluck is a health and science writer. She was one of seven Times staffers awarded the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting for coverage of the Ebola epidemic. She is the author of “Island Practice,” about a colorful and contrarian doctor on Nantucket.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trump Says Space Force Creation a ‘National Security Priority’
['U.S.']


Fashion Review: Dressing for Love and War and ‘Wheel of Fortune’
['Prada and Moschino wrestle with reality in unexpected ways; Tod’s goes all-in for leather.', 'It’s a good question at the moment, if a kind of annoyingly existential one, which may be why it’s so hard to handle. At Tod’s, for example, there’s no effort to wrestle with complicated reality; instead there is — leather! As much of it as possible: tailored leather shorts and leather shirts and leather blazers; leather shift dresses and leather puffers; leather trench coats; nappa leather and patent leather. Oh, and some tweed. It’s perfectly accomplished. But not convincing as the answer to everything.', 'More persuasive was Jeremy Scott, and his “don’t we all just need a smile right now? Don’t we all need a little levity in our lives?” explanation backstage before his laugh-in of a Moschino game show.', 'It was funny, no question, but even game show culture has a dark underbelly; problems, after all, can’t really be solved by a spin of the wheel. In recent shows, Mr. Scott has started to grapple with some of the implications of his pop culture one-liners — almost making an art of it — but not this time.', 'This time he seemed distracted by the coming Met Gala, themed around Camp, and its red carpet needs and possibilities. So while there was a lot of sparkle and wit in the clothes (sparkling wit, even), ultimately it was all promise with no real payoff; escape, with little lasting effect.', 'Which doesn’t mean we can’t dream of a happy ending. Mrs. Prada did: One that toggled between Hitchcock heroines and frogwomen, love and war. It’s a perennial story, after all — as human as our lust for a get-rich-quick scheme.', 'The high romance of portrait-necked 1950s party dresses in black wool and silk with swagged skirts caught up at the hip by O-rings, some splashed with bouquets of roses, alternated with crisp white shirt-dresses dangling three-dimensional satin tulips (they were kind of floppy, like they were on their last legs) and army green utilitarian suiting.', "Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Fashion Review: Bottega Veneta Gets a New Look
['The verdict is in on Daniel Lee’s first runway collection.', 'Wait! Maybe more was going on than boring designer musical chairs.', 'Was Bottega going to reimagine itself as the brand for loyalists of what has become colloquially known as Old Celine? Were they going to have a new place to shop? Was Mr. Lee’s aesthetic also — maybe? — a Philo-phile aesthetic? If so, was that, in fact, a good thing or had its time come and gone (has it been idealized in retrospect)?', 'On Friday morning in Milan, as Mr. Lee unveiled his first runway collection for the brand, everyone got to find out.', 'And the answer is … a qualified yes.', 'Though clearly in the vernacular of Old Celine as well as the house he has just joined, Mr. Lee’s Bottega was tougher, cooler, less interested in tête-à-têtes in an arty corner, and less well-behaved than either past brand. That’s a good thing.', 'It was also, on occasion, overly tricky (especially when it came to quilted skirts that folded into an A-line shape at the sides and linked across the groin with a fancy chain) and sometimes too literal (full-body leather biker jackets and pants). But those are relatively little quibbles. Given the weight of expectations and Mr. Lee’s youth (he’s in his early 30s), it was an impressively confident and coherent debut.', 'A new geometric V was introduced as closures on coats and the flap shape of a pocket, and the aforementioned chain repeated as gold trim on deep round-necked sweaters, and in the form of leather links woven together into a new sort of intrecciato coat.', 'The neck was the erogenous zone, both in reference to Renaissance portraiture and because, Mr. Lee said after the show, “it’s a part of the body most people are comfortable exposing.” Jackets had their collars raised and the lapels wrenched open, the shoulder dropped just off the bone, to create a heart-shaped curve. There were mirrored shirt dresses (shirt dresses are a thing this season) layered atop each other, and two-tone knits twisted up and around and over. There was men’s wear in a similar mode.', 'Even if afterward, with the stress of the reveal finally over, he looked a little played out.', "Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Buying Abroad, With a Logo
['A growing number of home buyers are choosing to live in corporate-branded communities, with companies from Marriott to Porsche ready to greet them.', 'Ivan and Ann Highley-Gergel, of Philadelphia, bought this Four Seasons branded property on the Caribbean Island of Nevis about a year ago. From their private house, they have access to all the resort’s amenities and facilities.', 'After 16 years of hauling suitcases to the Four Seasons Resort Nevis, Ivan and Ann Highley-Gergel of Philadelphia no longer need to pack for vacations at the Caribbean island resort.', 'About a year ago, the Highley-Gergels paid around $3.5 million for a furnished, four-bedroom villa that comes with a pool and a cottage and is operated by Four Seasons, allowing them to keep the bathing suits, flip-flops and tennis rackets at their otherwise turnkey vacation home.', 'The Highley-Gergels had sworn they would never buy a vacation home because of “the hassle,” but the convenience of buying at a branded development convinced them otherwise. From their private house, they have access to all the resort’s facilities, plus 24-hour security, room service, home maintenance and weekly cleanings.', 'The Highley-Gergels are among a growing number of Americans buying residences in brand-name resort properties, mostly in the Caribbean and Latin America. Elsewhere around the world, international buyers are snapping up easy-to-lock-up-and-leave, high-rise residences under hotel banners like Mandarin Oriental, Marriott, Ritz-Carlton and W, in cities from London to Barcelona to Bangkok.', 'According to a Knight Frank “Global Branded Residences — 2019” report, branded residences are “growing exponentially and can now be found in almost every major city and major holiday destinations,” with more than 400 mostly hotel-branded residences in 60 countries.', 'The Highley-Gergels at their Four Seasons villa. The couple had sworn they would never buy a vacation home because of “the hassle,” but the convenience of buying in a branded development convinced them otherwise.', 'Paul White, president of residential at Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts.', 'More than 80 percent of all projects in its pipeline include a residential component, and eight of the nine new resorts scheduled to open this year will include residences for buyers who want to call Four Seasons their home.', 'In London, for instance, buyers looking to tie the knot with Four Seasons can do so at Twenty Grosvenor Square, A Four Seasons Residence, the hotelier’s new stand-alone project with 37 private residences, a wine cellar, spa, pool, game room and business center, amid private landscaped gardens in the high-end Mayfair neighborhood. About a mile away, the Residences at Mandarin Oriental Mayfair, with 80 luxury apartments, housekeeping and a rooftop bar, are slated to open in 2021.', 'By buying a home with, say, St. Regis or Ritz-Carlton, “you buy into a global brand,” Mr. Bailey said, one able to offer guidance on purchasing real estate in an unfamiliar country with unfamiliar tax laws and regulations. For those buying something that is still under construction, it instills confidence that the developer will deliver a completed product.', "The Highley-Gergels' home came furnished, with a pool and a cottage for guests.", 'Mr. White noted that buying an overseas home under the marquee of a familiar brand also assuages buyers who may be nervous about immersing themselves in a foreign culture.', 'The model has become so popular, in fact, that brands beyond hotels are also attaching their luxury images to residential developments. The Italian jeweler Bulgari now offers residences in London and Dubai. French crystal maker Baccarat operates 60 homes in its Manhattan hotel. Fashion house Fendi is developing 41 Fendi Private Residences in Scottsdale, Ariz. At the Porsche Design Tower in Sunny Isles Beach, Fla., residents can park their cars next to their apartments — even on the 50th floor. And just a few blocks away, 260 luxury residences are nearing completion in the 60-story Armani Casa tower.', 'All that comes at a price.', 'Simon Jacobs, an investor from Manhattan, long considered buying a vacation home in the Caribbean, but he didn’t know where. He was after something with a beachfront, and that was reachable via nonstop flight. “I didn’t want to have to deal with any of the issues,” he said.', 'After checking out possibilities in Anguilla, St. Barts, Barbados, and Turks and Caicos, Mr. Jacobs, 58, his wife Eliana and their two daughters found their dream island home during a Christmas 2015 stay at Sugar Beach, A Viceroy Resort, which is built on an old sugar plantation on St. Lucia and offers privately owned, one- to four-bedroom residences.', 'The 60-story Porsche Design Tower opened in 2017 in Sunny Isles, Fla., with 132 residential units.', 'That May, he paid about $8.25 million for one of the hotel’s five new contemporary beachfront residences, personalizing the 4,200-square-foot house with a double-height living and dining room, a media room and a closet to store snorkeling gear. Since the house was completed a year ago, the Jacobses, who also have a weekend home in Connecticut and summer in Europe, have only been there a few times.', 'But as sales volume rises at branded communities, the average age is falling. Mr. White, of the Four Seasons, said buyers were “younger than expected,” spanning several generations. At resort properties, multigenerational clients are important. “We will see a family buy a residence and bring the grandparents and kids along and use it as a vehicle to build a great legacy and memories,” he said.', 'Four years ago, Mark and Tori Smith bought a beachfront apartment at the Ritz-Carlton Reserve in Dorado Beach, P.R. In 2017, they were fortunate when their new home survived Hurricane Maria largely unscathed.', 'Sagar Desai, the global head of acquisitions and development for Viceroy Resorts, said condo hotels and resort residences started as a way “to help developers financially engineer their deals,” then “morphed into a very unique way to satisfy the needs of guests” who wanted to own homes. Viceroy is currently building residences at new resorts in Panama, Portugal and Mexico.', 'Often, buyers are looking for more than swimming pools and spas. The Four Seasons Palazzo Tornabuoni, popular with Americans and Canadians, houses 37 apartments in a restored 16th-century palace in Florence, Italy, and offers a calendar of lectures and events (wild boar hunting, anyone?) “which you generally wouldn’t find in a residential complex in that location,” Mr. Bailey said. Homeowners also are offered tours to other cities and towns, to help them engage with local culture.', 'Marriott currently has 11 stand-alone residential projects in the works — from a Ritz-Carlton in Singapore to a St. Regis in Dubai and a Marriott in Cairo — as well as eight others in the pipeline.', 'When the Trump Organization launched its Trump International Realty brokerage in 2012, its first project in South America was a luxury residential tower in Punta del Este, a resort area in Uruguay. The building, slated to open in 2020, is not owned by Trump but will bear his brand. About 84 percent of about 160 units have been sold, and the first condos are expected to close by the end of 2019, said Juan Jose Cugliandolo, chief executive of YY, the developer. The Trump Organization currently has 10 properties completed or in development, according to a 2018 report on branded residences by Savills, which lists the organization as the 11th-largest individual residence brand worldwide.', 'As a wider range of brands enters the market, offerings are also being expanded to include people who are not phenomenally wealthy.', 'In 2017, Andrew Ashcroft, a developer, approached Marriott about making Alaia, a 155-unit complex on the barrier reef of Belize’s Ambergris Caye, part of the chain’s Autograph Collection.', 'The Ritz-Carlton Reserve hotel in Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico, was redeveloped in 2012 to include the first Ritz-Carlton Reserve residences.', 'The Smiths’ 3,500-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment includes balconies, ocean views and access to the hotel’s amenities.', 'Slated to open next year, the complex will include studios at $199,000, one-bedrooms at $419,000, two-bedrooms for $649,000, three-bedrooms for $799,000 and eight beachfront villas priced at $1.3 million. Twenty-five percent of inventory is sold, Mr. Ashcroft said, and 85 percent of the buyers are American.', 'Four Seasons also has its eyes on Belize, developing 85 residences as part of a new complex on Caye Chapel, a 280-acre private barrier island, slated to open in 2021.', 'Even as international locales explode in popularity, though, the Savills report notes that the U.S. remains by far the largest market for branded residences, with 32 percent of the globe’s supply. Four years ago, Mark and Tori Smith of Denver purchased a 3,500-square-foot, three-bedroom condo for $3.5 million at the Dorado Beach Ritz-Carlton Reserve, in Dorado, Puerto Rico. When Hurricane Maria hurtled toward the island two years later, the Smiths left before it landed, worried they might lose their investment.', 'They got lucky. The resort suffered extensive damage and the hotel was closed for about a year, but the residents were allowed back when utilities were restored. Last October, Dorado Beach reopened with more than 300,000 new plantings and expanded facilities.', 'Although the Smiths return to Denver every month, they spend a total of five months and a day at the Dorado — the minimum required to call Puerto Rico their permanent residence.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Manipur fake encounters: kin allege bribe for settlement
['Members of the Campaign For Peace and Democracy (Manipur) protesting in New Delhi against ‘State-sponsored atrocities in Manipur’.', 'A court in Thoubal district of Manipur has disposed of a case of alleged extrajudicial killing of a man by a police team in 2011, thanks to the delay in sanction of prosecution from the State government.', 'The family of the victim on Monday alleged that it was fighting the case despite coercions, including a lump sum being offered as “bribe” to withdraw the case.', 'Tampha, the wife of Angousana Athokpam of Bishnupur district who was arrested on February 27, 2011, by a Thoubal district police team and allegedly killed in a fake encounter, told reporters in Imphal that some stranger had come to her home last month and offered her “₹7 lakh for an out-of-court settlement”.', 'Tanoubi, Athokpam’s daughter, said the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thoubal, had disposed of her father’s case on Saturday saying it cannot proceed further as the Manipur government has not given the prosecution sanction. “Such prosecution sanctions had already been given in the Imphal East and Imphal West districts,” said Ms. Tanoubi.', 'She said her father’s “killing” was one of the 39 cases registered on the specific orders of the Supreme Court. The accused in nine such cases have already been chargesheeted.', 'The SC is looking into 1,528 alleged fake encounter cases in Manipur filed by Extrajudicial Execution Victims Families Association Manipur, a group seeking speedy trial in these cases.', 'There has been no explanation from the BJP-led State government as to why no prosecution sanction was issued in Athokpam’s case.', 'The EEVFAM activists are not happy with the court order in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


MDM scheme food found to be unsafe in 2 Odisha districts
['The State food analyst has found food served as part of the Mid Day Meal programme “unsafe and substandard” in Kendrapara and Kandhamal districts.', 'Based on the finding, the Odisha State Food Commission has directed the Secretary of Department of School and Mass Education and Collectors of the two districts to take action.', 'According to the report, samples of loose dals sent from Kandhamal loose boiled rice collected from Kendrapara were deemed unsafe. Salt samples in Kendrapara were also substandard.', 'The State food testing laboratory has found synthetic colour in samples of split arhar dal, which is unsafe under Section 3(1)(zz) of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Bail for alleged Maoist sympathiser in Yerwada jail since 2015
['The Bombay High Court on Monday granted bail to Konnath Muralidharan, 66, an alleged sympathiser of Communist Party of India (Maoist), who has been in Yerwada jail since May 2015 after the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested him for possessing ‘objectionable material’. His bail has been previously rejected by the Pune court in September 2016.', 'On May 8, 2015, Mr. Muralidharan was arrested at 6 a.m. after the ATS got information that he, along with an aide Chirag Palli, were operating from their hideout at Talegaon in Pune. ATS recovered hand written notes along with printed literature that talked about Operation Green Hunt, central military commission and other material related to CPI (Maoists).', 'According to the FIR, Mr. Muralidharan introduced himself as Thomas Joseph and was holding names such as Sunny alias Rajendra Goppi Vijayan alias Raghavan alias Ajith Kannampillai alias Kannakaran. His aide Mr. Palli introduced himself as James Mathew.', 'Statements of some witnesses were recorded and the ATS had seized laptops, CPUs, printers, three pen drives, 10 mobile handsets, five sim cards, two dongles and books in Malayalam from them.', 'The ATS also recovered a fake PAN card in the name of Thomas Joseph with Mr. Muralidharan’s photo, while Mr. Palli had a fake Aadhaar card in his name.', 'Mr. Muralidharan was charged with Section 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), Section 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), Section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), Section 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 10 (penalty for being member of an unlawful association, etc), Section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities), Section 20 (punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation), Section 38 (offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation), and Section 39 (offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).', 'The ATS filed a chargesheet on October 14, 2015, before a sessions court in Pune. On September 9, 2016, Mr. Muralidharan who suffered heart ailments prior to his arrest, and suffered a mild heart attack while he was lodged in prison, moved a bail application which was rejected by the Pune court.', 'The present bail application, filed in HC through his advocates Sudeep Pasbola and Susan Abraham, states that he has been falsely implicated, and that there is no evidence to prosecute him under UAPA.', 'Justice Nitin Sambre granted bail to Mr. Murlidharan on ₹1 lakh surety and ordered him to report to Pune police station twice a month.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Invite to Brahma Kumaris draws criticism
['The government’s decision to invite a member of the Prajapita Brahmakumari to conduct a talk inside the legislative building has come under criticism.', 'Brahma Kumari Shivani, member of the Brahmakumaris World Spiritual University, is scheduled to deliver a ‘motivational speech’ at the Central Hall on Tuesday. The Bramha Kumaris claim to be a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation.', 'Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said it is a “motivational speech” and should be seen in a positive manner.', 'However, Nationalist Congress Party leader and former deputy chief minister Chhagan Bhujbal questioned it’s purpose. “If it is a religious function, then you will have to allow other religions to hold similar functions,” he said.', 'Calling the legislature building a ‘temple of democracy,’ All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLA Imtiaz Jaleel said it should not be used for religious speeches.', 'While announcing his decision to not attend the program, Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Azmi said the move is “unconstitutional and unacceptable”.', 'In 2016, two Jain monks addressed lawmakers inside the Assembly building in Harayana and Madhya Pradesh. The latter was then ruled by the BJP.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Vows: Two Art Collectors Who Caught Each Other’s Eye
['Within six months of meeting, Yelena Ambartsumian and Miroslav Grajewski began buying paintings together. They fell in love with more than the art.', 'Yelena Ambartsumian and Miroslav Grajewski began buying artwork together within six months of meeting. It led to a romance fueled by robust curiosity and the desire to build a legacy.', 'Marriage, they say, is a negotiation, a protracted conversation built on trust, shared goals and infinite reserves of tact.', 'It’s a concept not lost on Yelena Ambartsumian and Miroslav Grajewski, who, well before they traded vows Jan. 19 at St. Illuminator’s Armenian Apostolic Cathedral in Manhattan, had already mastered the art of the deal.', 'Two years ago, Ms. Ambartsumian, 30, an associate in the law firm Milbank, and Mr. Grajewski, 28, an engineer and executive with Zuvic Carr and Associates, embarked on a courtship sparked by a mutual passion for contemporary art. That shared appetite led them to invest piece by piece in a jointly held collection.', 'The bride preparing for the ceremony Jan. 19 at St. Illuminator’s Armenian Apostolic Cathedral in Manhattan.', 'Their path in the art world was halting at first. “We definitely had a fair number of moments where we thought we were nuts,” Mr. Grajewski said just days before the wedding, going on to describe a romance fueled by robust curiosity and the desire to build a legacy. Were they driven to compete with other, perhaps more seasoned young trophy hunters?', 'To some, such sums may seem staggering. Indeed Ms. Ambartsumian’s parents — her mother a psychiatrist, her father, an electrical engineer — may well have been taken aback.', 'The Rev. Mesrob Lakissian placed gilded coronets on the heads of the bride and groom, an Armenian tradition anointing the couple as the rulers of their domestic kingdom.', 'During their treks, they would compare notes, often astonished to find that on just about every occasion they were drawn to the same several pieces, their interests encompassing canvases both abstract and figurative, vividly colorful and monochromatic, and, in addition, pieces of sculpture and photography.', 'Once the couple set their sights on a piece, they would return to it multiple times, at varying hours, and in shifting moods. When they settled on a purchase, Mr. Grajewski, the more extroverted of the pair, would begin negotiations. The couple, who drew from their savings, had agreed in advance to split the cost.', 'Some of their pieces were housed early on in Ms. Ambartsumian’s former apartment near Wall Street. They would later find their way to Milford, Conn., where the couple now resides.', 'Before Ms. Ambartsumian moved to her new home in Connecticut, her mother, Dr. Barbara Sumbatian, paid a visit.', 'A chance to write a note during the reception, which was at 11 Madison Park in New York.', 'The groom’s mother, Marici Zuvic Grajewski, had raised an eyebrow as well. But his unorthodox choice in art did nothing to dent her faith in the match. What could go wrong, after all?', 'A short time later Ms. Ambartsumian caused necks to crane as she glided toward the altar in an ivory flower-embroidered Elizabeth Fillmore dress, its back plunging toward her waist. Its otherwise regal look was enhanced when the officiant, the Rev. Mesrob Lakissian, intoned the familiar verses from Corinthians, “Love bears all things, hopes all things…,” and placed a crown on her head.', 'Her gesture was in keeping with the convention-bending spirit of the pair. “These are two people who are ahead of their times, behind the times, and in the moment all at once,” Ms. Matevosyan told guests at the reception.', 'But on this occasion, it seemed, the couple was resolutely looking forward. “Collecting was part of a journey that Yelena and I went on,” Mr. Grajewski said.', 'Pushing aside the church call for modesty, the bride shed her cape before she sailed down the aisle, revealing a gown that plunged in the back.', 'Toward the end of the ceremony, the Rev. Mesrob Lakissian placed gilded coronets on the heads of the bride and groom, an Armenian tradition anointing the couple as the rulers of their domestic kingdom.', 'Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Sunday Routine: How Susanne Bartsch, Night Life Queen, Spends Her Sundays
['From her home base at the Chelsea Hotel, the high-fashion Swiss diva hits the flea markets and the gym before experimenting with new looks in the afternoons.', 'Born in Switzerland, she moved to London at 17 and promptly fell in love with a British boy who was headed to New York. “My heart runs my life. I followed him here in 1981 on Valentine’s Day,” she said.', 'The pair broke up soon after, but he left her his apartment at the Chelsea Hotel. Rather than move, Ms. Bartsch expanded. One apartment became two, then four.', 'Sunday is my one day to sleep in, so I get up late, around 11:30 a.m. I’m a night owl. I was born close to midnight, maybe that has something to do with it. My bedroom is really dark, so I put on sunglasses and start my day. I’m the sunglass queen.', 'I make instant organic coffee, it’s called Mountain something. I add lots of milk because I don’t like coffee. I like the idea of it. I’m Swiss so we don’t do big breakfasts I’ll have bread and jam, maybe boiled eggs. I never feel hungry. It’s already late so I’d rather get out.', 'Sometimes I see my son. He has his own self-contained apartment. If I want to see him I have to look for him.', 'I’m out the door by 2. I don’t shower, I just put on jeans or a casual dress and bootees and go to a flea market. I like the one in Dumbo or the Brooklyn Flea, and the one on east 39th Street in Manhattan. I also like pop-ups where underground designers sell their stuff.', 'I go to Whole Foods and pick up ingredients to make homemade chili. While I’m there I buy soup. I like their clam chowder and their potato leek. Sometimes I go to Foragers to get a mozzarella and tomato sandwich or their Brie and turkey. Their food is really fresh and homemade.', 'Back home I start to cook. I cut the onions, garlic, and tomatoes for the chili. I make it for my son and I. We’ll eat it during the week.', 'I meet David for 30 minutes. We’re still married, but we don’t live together. He lives a block away. We catch up and talk about our son.', 'Around 8 I’ll meet a friend for a drink, somewhere in the neighborhood. I like Blue Ribbon, the Standard Grill, and Souen. Sometimes I go the McKittrick to interview new talent. There’s a ring-tossing guy we might use.', 'By 11:30 I’m back home. I don’t like to have late nights on Sunday. Then I putter around for a few hours. It’s the quietest time of the day for me, so I’m able to get on the computer and return emails or answer an interviewer’s questions. Then I post on Instagram. I know you’re supposed to do it at a certain time during the day, but I can never remember when that is. Then I take a bath with Epsom salt. Before I know it, it’s 2 a.m. I try not to stress that it’s so late, because I have to get up at 9.', 'Sunday Routine readers can follow Susanne Bartsch on Instagram @bartschland or on Twitter @bartscharama.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Modern Love: How Bibliophiles Flirt
['They loved each other, but she harbored a shameful secret: She had stopped reading books.', 'I was an English major in college and went on to get a master’s in literature. But shortly after the spiral-bound thesis took its place on my shelf next to the degree, I stopped reading. It happened gradually, the way one heals or dies.', 'When I created my OkCupid profile (screen name: missbibliophile52598), I filled out the “favorite books” section, letting my taste in literature speak for me: “100 Years of Solitude,” “A Moveable Feast,” “White Teeth,” “The Namesake,” “The Known World,” “The God of Small Things,” “How to Read the Air.” But a twinge of panic surged through me when I realized it had been more than two years since I had read most of those titles, and more than five years for some.', 'Despite my track record, I tried to maintain my bookish persona. I joined book clubs on Meetup.com that I never attended. I requested the library copy of Kazuo Ishiguro’s “Never Let Me Go” because everyone else was reading it, only to return it a week late, unread, with fines.', 'I still loved the idea of reading. I treasured books and bookstores. Whenever I found one, I would linger between the shelves for hours as if catching up with old friends, picking out volumes I had read and buying new ones I hadn’t.', 'When my father’s girlfriend gave me a book by Joel Osteen for Christmas, I returned it for Toni Morrison’s “A Mercy.” I also bought a collection of short stories by Dostoyevsky. But I didn’t read either of them.', 'David was my first OkCupid date — my first online date of any kind. He was tall and nice, if awkward. I asked him question after question to keep him at ease and the conversation flowing, but also to deflect his attention (a classic introvert trick).', 'His profile said he liked to read, so I asked him about his last book. His face lit up and his fingers danced. I realized within the first several weeks that David read much more than I did, about a book or two a week. We seemed an unlikely couple: me, a 5-foot-3 black woman born to a Caribbean mother, and him, a 6-foot-4 white guy from Ohio. But as we got to know each other, our shared faith and mutual love of books bridged our gaps.', 'The first time David visited my house, we compared libraries. We only had four titles in common, two of which were C.S. Lewis collections. David preferred history and nonfiction, whereas I gravitated toward fiction writers of color and immigrant narratives.', 'Months later, when we began to discuss the possibility of getting married one day, I didn’t broach the subject of combining our libraries — not because I feared having to untangle them someday but because I liked having my own stories to share.', 'On our seventh date, David and I visited the central library downtown.', 'David paused from listing the titles he planned to read over summer and raised his eyebrows.', 'I was painfully aware of the glaring hypocrisy in my life. I defended the virtues of bookstores in the age of online retailing and bought books whenever I got the chance, but I hardly read them. They sat on every surface until my house appeared to wear books the way one wears clothes. They piled up on chairs and draped across sofa arms.', 'The Japanese language has a word for this: tsundoku. The act of acquiring books that go unread.', 'The shelves of my bookcase sag in the middle, and not just because it’s made of cheap plywood. It’s because each shelf holds two rows of books, an inner and an outer.', 'If I want to find a book from college or before, I know to reach back to the inner row. If I want to find a more recent addition, I look along the edge. Surrounding the bookshelf are stacks containing different categories of books.', 'There are: Books I Have Read. Books I Want to Read. Books I Started but Did Not Finish Because I Did Not Like Them. Books I Started and Loved but Could Not Justify Reading Given Their Graphic Sexual or Violent Content. That category contains two books by Philip Roth.', 'The last time I visited a dollar bookstore, I bought five titles for myself and two for David. His charge to “read a book” echoed in my head. One afternoon I picked up one of the dollar hardbacks I bought solely for its poetic title.', 'I pushed through the first two chapters and discovered a new narrator in the third. I loved the alternating points of view. I carried the book to work and read at lunch. I read on my walk home, occasionally lifting my eyes to make sure I avoided strangers and uneven concrete.', 'I felt smug that while most of my millennial peers also walked with their heads down, eyes hovering just above their palms, I was not merely scrolling through Instagram. I was reading. Reading a book.', 'It was not a competition, but there was a push. I felt him pushing me to be more of the person I used to be and more of who I wanted to be. Whenever he turned to discussing his current nonfiction book about the rise of Silicon Valley or environmental philosophers, I would tell him of fiction, of men who left their countries by hiding in boxes only to climb out and turn into birds. I would remind him that sometimes the only way to explain the world we live in is to make it all up.', 'I asked David once what he liked about me.', 'A little over a year after our date at the library, David suggested we visit again. As we walked along the shelves, he asked if I remembered the game we played on our first visit, when we put Post-it note reviews in our favorite books.', 'His proposal had rested between the pages of “The Rebel Princess” for over a year.', 'We embraced in the middle of the fiction aisle, surrounded by other people’s stories and about to begin our own.', 'Karla Marie-Rose Derus is a writer in Los Angeles.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


How to Choose the Right Perfume or Cologne for You
['Choosing a perfume is tough, but the experts are here to help you find a fragrance that you’ll love for years.', 'Whether you’re a fragrance fanatic or you’re new to scents, finding a fragrance you love can be a daunting experience. When you approach a fragrance counter, the only information you can garner about any of the scents in front of you is how the bottle looks, which, of course, tells you nothing. You’re often left to sniff a few selections from hundreds of available bottles with the help of an overbearing salesperson, who is usually no help at all.', 'A scent you love can truly become a part of you, an extension of yourself. But how do you find one?', 'Whether you have a few minutes to research before you hit the stores, or you’re trying to pick the perfect scent on the fly, here are a couple of easy tips from fragrance experts to help you land a scent that you’ll love for years and feels (and smells) like you dreamed it into existence.', 'Sometimes, the best place to start is, for lack of a better term, right under your nose. Think about your daily life. What scents do you already love?', 'The most crucial part of finding your new favorite fragrance is, of course, trying it on. Spray it on a pulse point where your skin is naturally warm, like your wrist or elbow, so the fragrance will really heat up and reveal itself over time.', 'As to why scents sometimes smell completely different on two different people, Ms. Yang said that fragrances are sensitive to light and heat, and even your own personal body chemistry, diet and hormonal levels. Even time of day plays into how a perfume “wears,” or how it smells on you, how powerful it is and how long it lasts.', 'If multiple trips to the mall to sample new fragrances sounds exhausting, keep in mind that department stores have small sample vials behind the counters ready for you to bring home — all you have to do is ask. If you prefer a cosmetics store like Sephora, their staff is able to make a sample vial of fragrances on their shelves so you can wear them over a few days to know how they function in different environments, giving you time to live with the scent.', 'Ms. Yang also pointed out that natural vs. synthetic elements in your scent affect not only the length of the wear, but the smell of the scent itself and how it interacts with your body. “Natural is not always more sustainable … or better for you. I’m a trained aromatherapist and I love natural fragrances as much as synthetic/natural combos. That said, four tons of roses, composed of approximately 1,600,000 rose blossoms, yields only 1 kilogram of rose oil. Real, all-natural perfumes are very expensive. No two rose yields will smell exactly the same (like wine) due to climate conditions.', 'Finding a scent you love can be challenging, but if you know what you’re looking for, and how to look for it, the experience can be enjoyable, especially when you’re armed with the knowledge of scents to change your daily life. A few online resources to learn which notes you prefer, how to apply and test, and determining your next scent is easier than you think.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Social Q’s: Honey, That’s Not Why Your Dad Left
['What to do when you learn that the story your husband has told himself for years is untrue? Tell him, our advice columnist says.', 'My husband, who is in his 30s, always told me that his mother threw his father out of the house — on my husband’s 12th birthday, no less — because she found marijuana in his bag. (They agreed to give it up after having kids.) But her current husband, a wonderful man who overshares, told me the breakup was actually due to the first husband’s repeated infidelity. My mother-in-law confirmed this when I asked her. She also said she believes my husband knows. Should I tell him? His father died of cancer several years ago. I hate to speak ill of the dead, but should I, in this case?', 'Of course, your obligation is to your husband, who deserves gentle truth and support. If you hadn’t verified the story your stepfather-in-law told you, you might have written it off as idle gossip and let it go. But you did verify it. So now you must tell your husband. Withholding this information would put you in weird league with your in-laws. They’ve done nothing wrong, but for you to keep the secret would make you disloyal to your husband.', 'Say, “Honey, can we talk about your dad?” and take it calmly from there. He may be upset by the news or regard it as the missing piece of a family puzzle. It’s too bad he can’t discuss it with his father. And I get your reluctance to share unsavory stories of the dead. But fortunately, your husband has you to lean on if he needs help.', 'Guess Who’s Not Coming to Dinner?', 'We love to make dinner for friends. People say our apartment is minimalist, spacious and nicely lit. But the last three times we invited one couple to dinner, they suggested we come to their place instead. Who does that? Not only were we deprived of the activity we proposed, we’ll be the ones who have to travel to another part of town on a cold night. Would it be O.K. to insist: “No, we’d like to have you over”?', 'A.O.', 'Here’s the thing: Some people have trouble accepting hospitality. Others have numerous food allergies. And still others don’t like going out at night. Why not be gracious and let this go? Three invitations later, it doesn’t sound as if this couple is coming to dinner anytime soon.', 'My husband and I live with our young children on a small cul-de-sac. It’s a neighborhood of mostly older people. We’re one of the few young families. Many neighbors drive fast, but one older woman drives at dangerous speeds. She whips around the corner so fast that she startles my toddler! My husband thinks I should talk with her directly. But I would prefer slipping a polite note under her door. Thoughts?', 'In any event, it’s easier to accommodate a neighbor, smiling at your doorstep with a reasonable request, than to go along with written appeals, slid under the door like (super-polite) complaints. When possible, attach a face to requests for favors. And since it was your husband’s brilliant idea, why not let him cross the street and ask the woman to slow down?', 'I went to the symphony and sat next to a woman wearing perfume. I have asthma, so I was uncomfortable, but I didn’t say anything until intermission. I asked her nicely if she was wearing perfume. When she said she was, I told it her it probably wasn’t a good idea in a crowded concert hall and left it at that. Then I left. What would you have done?', 'No offense, but I don’t think your educational campaign accomplished much. You didn’t explain why it’s not a good idea to wear scent in tight spaces. The perfume wearer will be no wiser the next time out.', 'I might have said, “You may not have considered this, but I have asthma, and your perfume is making me uncomfortable.” Then I would have approached an usher or the box office, explained my predicament, and asked for a less fragrant seat. Why miss the second half?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Wait —: Wait — What Is a Hole?
['Wait — What Is a Hole?', 'Wait — What Is a Hole?', 'Allow me to ruin your life real quick.', 'A few days into the new year, someone asked me, as a kind of puzzle: “What is a hole?” Right now, your brain is protecting you; human brains are poor multitaskers and since yours is occupied with reading, you haven’t yet had time to sit back and consider the question that has blown across the fecund wasteland of my thoughts nearly every day of 2019. The problem is that your brain cannot protect you forever. If you want to get off this ride, you need to do it now.', 'What is a hole?', 'And yet, there are other characteristics of holes that escape our special attention. We have no common word for a hole that is bigger than a pinprick but smaller than a pothole. German identifies a metaphorical hole in the month of January when the bustle, spirits and commerce of the holiday season suddenly abate (“Januarloch”). In some dialects of Spanish, a “butrón” is a hole made in a building to carry out a break-in.', 'Great question.', 'Speaking of holes...', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Opposition boycotts Governor’s address to protest his RSS ties
['What’s with the frown?: Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao is escorted out by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis after his joint address to both Houses of the legislature at the start of the Budget session in Mumbai on Monday.', 'In a stormy start to the Budget session, Opposition parties on Monday boycotted Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao’s joint address to both Houses of the legislature as a mark protest over his recent remarks praising and expressing pride over his association with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).', 'Mr. Rao had, earlier this month, termed RSS as one of the most secular and inclusive organisations and expressed pride to be part of the ‘Sanghatan’ and being part of the RSS. Expressing displeasure over the remarks, Opposition members stayed away from his address.', 'In his address, Mr. Rao emphasised on the State government’s efforts to make Maharashtra a trillion dollar economy. “In order to achieve $1 trillion economy by 2025, my Government is preparing a new Industrial Policy with the objective of creating 60 lakh new employments and attracting an investment to the tune of ₹10 lakh crore,” he said.', 'Mr. Rao claimed that due to several industry-friendly policies over the last four years and — events like Make in India Week and Magnetic Maharashtra Convergence Summit 2018 — the State has attracted ₹3.36 lakh crore Foreign Direct Investment. “Maharashtra continues to be the leading State in attracting FDI in India,” the Governor said.', 'Recounting the measures taken by the State government for the welfare of farmers, Mr. Rao said that the government is working on schemes to achieve the objective of doubling the farmers’ income.', 'The Governor also announced that land acquisition for the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi highway has been completed in a year and construction has begun. “This is the single largest project costing ₹55,335 crore that aims to connect the entire State from west to east,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Maharashtra tables over ₹4,200 crore in supplementary demands
['Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on Monday tabled supplementary demands worth ₹4,284.65 crore in the Assembly. Of this, ₹3,146.43 crore is the demand for additional expenditure till the next session while the remaining amount pertains to expenses already incurred by the government.', 'A supplementary demand is an additional grant to meet government expenditure, outside the annual budget.', 'The government will be presenting its interim budget on Wednesday. With this, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led State government has presented supplementary demands worth ₹1,71, 961 crore since December 2014.', 'According to Mr. Mungantiwar, the supplementary demand figure jumped because of the State’ decision to allot ₹ 2,000 crore from its contingency fund to be spent for farmers suffering from natural calamities such as drought. The government has allocated an extra ₹10.82 crore as financial assistance to the heirs of farmers who have committed suicides in the current financial year.', 'It has also provided ₹1,000 crore for the expenditure incurred on concessions given in the electricity tariff for agricultural pump and power loom consumers in the State, while ₹482.26 crore has been allocated to comply with the Bombay High Court order to issue pension to freedom fighters who were denied it on technical grounds. The State government also made a ₹305-crore allocation for milk procurement.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Lack of advice to pilots led to collision’
['The non-availability of any advice to the pilots by the airport operator’s dispatch section with regard to restrictions on taxiing and poor lighting have been found to be the cause of a ground collision of two aircraft at Mumbai airport in 2016.', 'An official probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board into a ground collision between a Kuwait Airways flight which had just landed in Mumbai and an IndiGo aircraft headed for Jaipur has also recommended that the Mumbai International Airport Ltd and the Airports Authority of India treat the incident site as a ‘hot spot’ till a permanent solution is reached. The incident, reported on November 30, 2016, occurred when the IndiGo aircraft was cleared to taxi via a specified path and hold when it reached a particular point.', 'The AAIB probe revealed that the Kuwait Airways aircraft, an Airbus 330 had swept wings which are subject to a phenomenon known as ‘swept wing growth’ or ‘wing creep’ that occurs during a turn when the wingtip describes an arc greater than the normal wingspan due to the geometry of the aircraft and the arrangement of the landing gear. Though in the present case, the Kuwait Airways aircraft was stationary it had hit its wing.', 'The Indigo aircraft suffered damage to the upper section of left hand Sharklet - a vertical wing-tip extension that improves the efficiency of an aircraft - was found sheared off from the main wing structure. The leading edge stainless steel cap of the Sharklet was found damaged from the top edge. Both outer and inner skin of the sharklet was also damaged.', 'The Kuwait Airways aircraft suffered outboard aileron - panels near the tip of the wing that move up and down - lower skin damage. The out board aileron trailing edge wedge structure was also damaged along with superficial paint scratches to the lower wing surface and wing trailing edge fairings.', 'The AAIB report said that an assumption by the Indigo flight crew that they were clear of the Kuwait Airways flight had continued taxiing onto taxiway N, thereafter crossing runway 14 without realising that left winglet had contacted the second aircraft.', 'AAIB said that Indigo Airlines may provide guidance material to its flight crew regarding the difficulty associated with assessing wing tip clearance. “MIAL and AAI may review the procedure for taxiing on taxiway N when an aircraft is holding on taxiway W4, short of Runway 14. MIAL may carry out assessment of the visibility conditions in the portion of W4 / N and take necessary corrective action if required,” the report said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Uneasy calm in Arunachal capital
['An uneasy calm prevailed in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar and nearby Naharlagun town under the watch of security forces on Monday, a day after widespread violence and arson left a trail of destruction and death.', 'Chief Minister Pema Khandu held a series of meetings with community-based organisations and students’ unions to “work out peace.” But most political parties, including the Congress and BJP ally National People’s Party, skipped his call for an all-party meeting.', 'Remove Arunachal CM and Rijiju: Cong.', 'Three persons have been killed in firing by the security forces since Friday night, when a 48-hour shutdown called by 18 indigenous organisations opposed to a move for granting permanent resident certificates (PRC) to six non-tribal communities turned ugly. Protesters burnt cars, vandalised the venue of the first Itanagar International Film Festival, damaged roadside property and set houses and shopping complexes owned by the ruling BJP Ministers and leaders on fire.', 'Mr. Khandu clarified misconceptions about the issue and sought the cooperation of all the organisations in restoring peace.', 'The CM expressed pain at the loss of three lives and announced Rs 20 lakh as compensation and a government job for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 10 lakh for those injured.', 'Mr Khandu admitted a “communication gap” regarding the PRC issue that was to be brought up in the Assembly only for discussion and to make the report of the joint high power committee (JHPC) public. “We had no plan to introduce a Bill or resolution in this regard. We made this clear through social media,” he said.', 'The CM said an inquiry committee to be headed by a commissioner would be formed to investigate the causes behind the violence. An assessment committee would also be formed to compensate for the private properties damaged.', 'Musicians from Assam and Nagaland and participants of the abandoned IIFF have sought compensation from the State government for losing their vehicles, musical instruments, acoustics, and other instruments during the mob violence.', 'Meanwhile, the Congress has in a letter to Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh demanded the immediate sacking of Mr Khandu, Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein and Union Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju for “failure in tackling the situation”. The party also sought the constitution of a panel to probe the “firing and killing of innocent and unarmed protestors”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Made on the Inside, Worn on the Outside
['Brands are using prison labor to provide inmates with jobs and training. But is it possible — and ethical — to build a profitable fashion business behind bars?', 'Peruvian inmates at work.', 'In a lush valley surrounded by the Peruvian Andes — past two sets of security gates, high fences, barbed wire and a rigorous pat-down — 13 women stood hard at work. They were weaving and knitting luxurious alpaca wool sweaters, deep-pile roll-necks and silky-soft track pants, destined to be sold to wealthy shoppers with lives far away, and a far cry, from their own.', 'More than two years into their program, both Carcel’s founders and the Peruvian prison authorities say the project has been a measurable success. It’s popular with prisoners and consumers alike and proof that the profitable and responsible production of luxury fashion can have a place behind bars.', 'Peru is becoming something of a case study on the issue of aid versus exploitation. A little more than 5,000 women are currently incarcerated there, and over 50 percent are actively employed in producing leather goods, clothing and textiles, according to INPE, the national penitentiary institute.', 'Carcel, a Danish brand, was founded in 2016 to provide incarcerated women with jobs, training and, possibly, a crime-free future.', 'Pietà was founded in Lima in 2012 by Thomas Jacob, a Frenchman who had once worked for Chanel, and currently employs around 50 male and female inmates from some of the largest jails in Peru. Prisoners manufacture anti-establishment logo T-shirts, sweatshirts, hand-knit sweaters, varsity jackets and high-top sneakers using locally sourced materials. Prices range from $8 for tote bags to $120 for jewelry.', 'Inmates don’t just make the clothes, he said — on occasion they also contribute to his designs, giving them both a creative outlet and training. Often, they act as models for advertising campaigns and are paid a portion of the sale price for each unit of clothing they produce, providing income they can send home to their families. Upon release, former inmates can continue working with Pietà, or seek jobs at other companies with Pietà’s recommendation and support.', 'Louise van Hauen and Veronica D’Souza, the founders of Carcel (which means “prison” in Spanish), met while living and working in Kenya. The former was a creative manager at a leather bag company and the latter was the head of a social start-up that made and distributed menstrual cups.', 'Veronica D’Souza, left, and Louise van Hauen are the founders of the Carcel label.', 'Ms. van Hauen said she wanted to start somewhere with proximity to high-quality natural materials, where some of the skills required were already part of local culture.', 'Virginia Matamoros, the director of Cusco Female Penitentiary, said that the prison offered basic training in sewing, weaving, baking and gardening to all new inmates with the hope that they can then move on to working with companies that can prepare them for release.', 'In Cusco, the Carcel inmates are trained by more experienced weavers until they have developed the vocational skills to work a five-hour shift, five days a week. They earn cash salaries of 650 to 1,100 Peruvian soles ($180 to $329) per month, depending on their level of experience. Earnings in both Peru and Thailand are benchmarked against the national minimum wage. In Peru, this is 930 soles a month.', 'The prison takes a 10 percent cut of inmates’ wages. The workers keep a portion for living expenses like food and soap, and Carcel pays the rest into their families’ bank accounts. Beyond the base salary, women can also receive bonuses for the quality of their work, good behavior and overtime.', 'Benigna Salinas operates a knitting machine.', 'There is no question the work is selling. According to Elizabeth von der Goltz, the global buying director of Net-a-Porter, fashion brands with social purpose are increasingly popular with shoppers.', 'To meet demand, Carcel is now looking to double its staff base in the Peruvian prison. At the company’s second production base in Thailand — the country with the most female inmates in the world — e-banking accounts are being developed for some prisoners and their relatives to minimize siphoning from wardens or companies. Carcel said it hoped to operate in a further three to five countries within the next five years.', 'Considerable challenges remain. This week, Carcel halted sales in America when it became aware of a federal law that bans the import of goods made by convicts. The company is now seeking a waiver; it pointed out that the United States is one of the few countries that did not ratify a 2014 International Labor Organization convention on forced labor, despite domestic prison labor being legal. Net-a-Porter confirmed Wednesday that it would suspend Carcel sales until the issue was resolved.', 'Elizabeth Paton reported from London, and Andrea Zarate from Cusco, Peru.', 'Elizabeth Paton is a reporter for the Styles section, covering the fashion and luxury sectors in Europe. Before joining The Times in 2015, she was a reporter at the Financial Times both in London and New York.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Oscars 2019: Your Guide to All the Best Picture Controversies
['How to navigate a fractious, scandal-plagued year at the movies.', 'Lucy Boynton and Rami Malek in “Bohemian Rhapsody,” which has been caught up in the controversy over the director Bryan Singer.', 'How hot is this beef?', 'The film is based on the true story of a black pianist (Don Shirley, played by Mahershala Ali) who hired a white driver and bodyguard (Tony Vallelonga, played by Viggo Mortensen) to chauffeur him on a tour across the Deep South in 1962.', 'But there are larger criticisms of the movie.', 'How hot is this beef?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'Are you happy in this modern world?', 'Or do you need more?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'How hot is this beef?', 'Why Do the Oscars Keep Falling for Racial Reconciliation Fantasies?', 'Reggie Ugwu\xa0is a pop culture reporter covering a range of subjects, including film, television, music and internet culture. Before joining The Times in 2017, he was a reporter for BuzzFeed News and Billboard magazine.', 'How Would You  Like That Beef?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Fashion Review: At Fendi, Raising the Bar in Farewell
['Karl Lagerfeld’s final collection for the house, and the question of vision at Gucci and Alberta Ferretti.', 'MILAN — Normally before a fashion show the decibel level is close to that of a small zoo, as people pass the time in gossip and air kisses and yelling into their phones. But Thursday at noon, as the crowd filed in for Fendi, the noise was just a whisper.', 'There were double FFs in fur and celadon green cotton and canvas on audience members everywhere you looked. A small card with an F (the lower leg replaced by a heart) and Mr. Lagerfeld’s signature scrawl had been placed atop every seat; the date of his death was on the back. At the end of the runway was a handwritten sign reading “Love Karl.” According to Serge Brunschwig, Fendi’s chief executive, Mr. Lagerfeld had been working on the collection until the end.', 'It showed.', 'Atop a base of sheer hosiery and bodysuits speckled with the rococo italics of a 1980s logo that Mr. Lagerfeld had created and called “karligraphy” was layered men’s tailoring in irony-tinged 1970s shades of brown and camel, purple and green; the backs of jackets and high-collared shirts (a reference to the style Mr. Lagerfeld favored for himself) sashed with a lavish taffeta bow. Leather coats laser-cut to mimic technical athletic mesh were paired with sheer pleated wrap skirts; governess dresses shifted just so over the body to suggest the branded underthings beneath.', 'It was easy and entirely contemporary; built on heritage, dipping in and out of trend (sports, suits, the soup of decades past) but indebted to neither. It was smart, in every sense of the word.', 'After the last model had filed past, Silvia Fendi, the designer for men’s and accessories and Mr. Lagerfeld’s partner on the creative side of the business, took her bow alone. A short video was shown of Mr. Lagerfeld sketching his first look for the brand, and explaining the power of a healthy dose of disrespect.', 'His work gave proof to his words but it didn’t matter: Respect was what he was due, not just because of what he had achieved but because of what he had just made. And backstage, everyone — models, modélistes, hair and beauty teams, executives — was in tears. As his last gesture he had raised the bar for everyone.', 'Milan Fashion Week began in the shadow of Mr. Lagerfeld’s death, and it cast a strange, uneasy light on the opening shows.', 'He wasn’t speaking of the general mood, though it would have made sense, or Mr. Lagerfeld’s legacy, though that would have made sense, too (and, in fact, Mr. Michele had started his career working at Fendi). Rather, he was talking about the wall of strobe-like L.E.D.s that flashed in formation throughout the show, shining directly in the eyes of audience members, forcing them into temporary sightlessness. What was going to happen next? The timeliness of the effect was a coincidence but a resonant one.', 'Which may be why, once you blinked away the spots on your retinas, what was visible on the runway was a play on all kinds of masks — blank-faced and S&M leatherette and filigree metal, some full-face, some playing peekaboo with eyes and mouth — and Mr. Michele’s now-signature exaggerated vintage grabfest of gender-bending costume for both sexes.', 'It was a little Venetian and a little Freddy Krueger; frump punk, cut with a dash of Hannah Arendt, the German philosopher who wrestled with questions of totalitarianism and freedom and was liberally referenced in the show notes.', 'Anyway, back to Mr. Michele and Gucci.', 'The show had bouquets of references and free-association fantasy. It probably had commercial hits buried underneath. What it did not have were any revelations or surprises.', 'Maybe we’d had enough for this week, anyway. Continuity! Sometimes it looks awfully good.', 'So if there was familiarity in the checkerboards and pomegranate prints in midcentury modern shapes and shades at Arthur Arbesser and the masculine/feminine play at Jil Sander, where Luke and Lucie Meier layered sweeping shirtdresses sliced to the hip and dish towel tunics over trousers wide and slim, that’s O.K. Brunello Cucinelli has built an entire theory of fashion on the virtues of merely nudging along his hand-knit cashmeres (now mixed with a base of chiffon) and earthy tailoring.', 'In any case, the result was more appealing than the unexpected swerve that’s been going on at Alberta Ferretti, where this season the designer veered even further backward into 1980s power-woman-meets-Vegas-sound-and-light-show territory. Guess she’s really not interested in being associated with those delicate pintucks and frothy Oscar frocks any more. Fair enough.', 'The problem is what was offered instead: shoulders — big ones, sometimes complete with fringe-bedecked epaulets. Jackets with shiny brass buttons. Jodhpurs and pleated stonewashed gray denim jeans. Cowboy boots and flat-brimmed hats. A whole lot of gold and silver and magenta lamé, in the form of jumpsuits, one-shouldered Komodo dragon ruffled minis, and high-waisted suspender trousers. Yes: suspenders.', 'They left you rubbing your eyes.', "Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.", 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


You Asked: What to Do When a Doctor’s Visit Is the Cause of Pain?
['What to Do When a Doctor’s Visit Is the Cause of Pain?', 'What to Do When a Doctor’s Visit Is the Cause of Pain?', 'Tips for dealing with pelvic pain during an OB-GYN exam.', 'Jen Gunter, M.D.', 'I have vaginismus, and though I’ve undergone physical therapy for it, pap smears are still unbearably painful — it basically feels like I’m being stabbed. Is there any way to tell my doctor that an Ativan and a Tylenol won’t cut it? Or am I doomed to never get a pelvic exam ever again?', 'Pap smears should not be painful, and they are most definitely not something to endure. In fact, each painful pelvic exam or Pap smear can further increase your pain, which worsens your underlying condition, never mind causing stress and trauma. There are definitely options to reduce your pain.', 'Have a question about women’s health? Ask Dr. Gunter yourself.', 'Pap smears and pelvic exams should not be painful, and I am sorry for your experience. As an OB/GYN and pain medicine physician I cannot say this enough: A painful pelvic exam should be stopped.', 'Find someone with expertise in doing pelvic exams for women who have pelvic pain.', 'As a pelvic pain specialist, I see women every day who tell me that my exam was their first pain-free Pap smear. I am so happy to help them, but it also makes me want to cry because it shouldn’t be that way. An experienced provider should allow enough time (feeling rushed helps no one relax) and may be able to coach you in other ways to help you relax your pelvic floor muscles. Some other options that can help reduce pain are applying topical numbing medication to the vaginal opening and using a narrow vaginal speculum that is about the size of a finger. Sometimes, I even have my patient insert the speculum herself.', 'A vaginal sample for H.P.V. (human papilloma virus) testing instead of a Pap smear.', 'Intravenous anesthesia.', 'For women for whom the first two options are not going to work (for example there is too much fear or pain, or memories of past trauma to take a vaginal swab, or there is a need to collect a Pap smear and look at the cervix because the H.P.V. test is positive), there is the option of an anesthetic. It is not any sign of failure to need anesthesia for a pelvic exam — we have modern anesthesia for a reason! This type of anesthesia is typically called monitored anesthesia care and an anesthesia provider (a doctor or nurse anesthetist) administers intravenous anesthesia in an operating room or a surgical center to control pain and anxiety.', 'It is more expensive and typically requires several hours out of the day, although with modern anesthesia techniques and a short procedure the recovery is typically very fast.', 'In some cases, this measure is worth it to be able to screen for potentially serious diseases like cervical cancer.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The New Speakeasy: Cocktails in a Stranger’s Kitchen
['He is a tour guide by day and mixologist by night. She is a photographer with a knack for snacks. Together, they are offering a new way to drink with strangers.', 'On a chilly Saturday night in late January, a handful of strangers huddled outside a townhouse on a quiet street in Bushwick. A small neon sign in its window, “Cocktails Here,” was the only indicator that they had come to the right place.', 'At 9 p.m., the front door of the townhouse opened and Matt Levy ushered his guests inside.', 'Mr. Levy, 38, mixes cocktails for strangers in his home, which he shares with his wife, Jennifer MacFarlane, 41, and their two young daughters. Guests sit around the couple’s kitchen table as Mr. Levy mixes cocktails from a rotating menu. A prix fixe of $80 will get you four drinks and some assorted snacks prepared by Ms. MacFarlane. Guests are also encouraged to bring their own booze if they want something specific; once, a guest from North Carolina brought her own bottle of house-infused lavender gin.', 'A couple in their mid-30s, Chris Donohoe and Wesley Loden, actually live down the street from Mr. Levy and Ms. MacFarlane. “We’ve always been so curious to come here,” Mr. Donohoe said. “We always see that sign and get jealous.” Mr. Loden was actually in the middle of doing “Dry January,” but when a reservation at the club opened up, he decided to shift his priorities.', 'Mr. Levy designs all the cocktails, and sometimes take inspiration from current events.', 'Once everyone was settled around the kitchen island, Mr. Levy handed his guests an aperitif — this evening, it was a rum pineapple Pimms punch — and introduced himself as the bartender and host. He looked the part in a gray short-sleeved button-up shirt, maroon chinos with a tropical palm tree print and a dark brown belt with an oversize Statue of Liberty buckle. His mustache even curled a little at the ends.', 'He became a “cocktail fanboy” and began experimenting at home. He spent years learning bartending techniques, memorizing recipes, figuring out how to hand-cut ice (he owns two ice saws from Japan) as well as how to set drinks on fire.', 'Mr. Levy designs all the cocktails, and sometimes take inspiration from local current events. In December, he created the “Astoria Borealis” after the power plant explosion in Queens turned the skies an eerie blue. The rum-based cocktail has blue Curaçao (for color) and banana liqueur (because, as Mr. Levy put it, the whole thing was “bananas”). Shaken and strained over crushed ice, the final flourish is a splash of Rum Fire, which Mr. Levy briefly sets on fire.', 'Instagram and word-of-mouth from a community of “boozehounds,” as Mr. Levy calls them, keep the club hopping. Mr. Levy said that even professional bartenders have come calling. One bartender visiting from Ottawa had such a great time that he sent Mr. Levy a bottle of his homemade jerk-spiced bitters and a handwritten recipe book.', 'The couple decided to let the alcohol do most of the work.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


It Was the Hottest Oscar Night Party. What Happened?
['It Was the Hottest Oscar Night Party. What Happened?', 'It Was the Hottest Oscar Night Party. What Happened?', 'Vanity Fair has ruled the roost, but its guest list is bloated by corporate sponsorships. And now there’s competition from Jay-Z.', 'Lady Gaga was invited. So was Mahershala Ali. But the screaming fans outside Vanity Fair’s Oscar party in Beverly Hills on Oscar night might have had a hard time recognizing everyone — like the two civilians who secured invitations in an online auction, bidding with customer-loyalty points from Marriott.', 'Condé Nast titles.', 'Sounds like a wild night, right?', 'Where are my Vanity Fair tickets?', 'Pity the publicist who couldn’t secure a pair.', 'Hosted by the magazine’s current editor, Radhika Jones, the party remains a big to-do. Stars still care about being photographed as they walk in. But the hysterical frenzy that once surrounded the event has been fading for some time, at least among top celebrities, three longtime publicists said in interviews.', "Radhika Jones, the editor of Vanity Fair, at the magazine's Oscar party in 2018.", 'For many years, the Vanity Fair party was associated with the magazine’s longtime editor Graydon Carter, who spent nearly a quarter-century styling himself not just as a chronicler of Hollywood’s movie stars and moguls, but also as a part of their inner circle, before retiring last year.', 'The New York Times’s books department, who seems less driven to make herself the centerpiece of this signature annual event and remains unknown to many on the Left Coast.', 'But a number of forces besides a lower-profile host have shaped the perception that the party is, if not over, at least past its prime.', 'A spokeswoman for the magazine said that the notion that the Vanity Fair party is less in demand “couldn’t be further from the truth.” The question, perhaps, is: Who is demanding?', 'The party started in 1994, but its roots really extend to the 1960s, when Irving Paul Lazar — the superagent known as Swifty, a nickname bestowed by Humphrey Bogart — began hosting Oscar gatherings for the crème de la crème of Hollywood.', 'Voilà! The A-list had a new rendezvous point.', "Wolfgang Puck, top, with Irving Paul Lazar, left, and Dudley Moore at Mr. Puck's restaurant Spago, where Mr. Lazar's star-studded Oscar-night party took place for some years.", 'The ’90s were the last decade when movie stars — Julia Roberts, Tom Cruise, Tom Hanks — truly dominated the culture, before franchise filmmaking took over Hollywood and the internet began its rapid fragmentation of media in general. Absent smartphones and social media, the party was a place where such celebrities could let their hair down.', 'The big night at Mortons became such a desirable invitation that the magazine began meting out arrival times to lower-status guests, including a smattering of journalists, later in the evening.', 'Tom Cruise arriving at Spago on Oscar night in 1989.', 'Bruce Feirstein, a screenwriter and Vanity Fair contributing editor, has attended the party regularly since its inception. Generally, he said, he has arrived at his appointed 11 p.m. time and prepares to run the gantlet of hundreds of cameras.', 'Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez were captured canoodling at Mortons in 2003.', 'But the magazine’s (quite literal) catering to business interests only became really apparent after the 2008 financial crisis. By then the party had moved to the Sunset Tower Hotel. Still more advertisers got invited, and the hotel’s relatively compact party space (made larger by covering the pool) turned into something out of the movie “The Day of the Locust.” People were packed elbow to elbow, forming a “sweaty mob,” in the words of one 2013 attendee.', 'The move to the Sunset Tower came with signage aplenty.', 'But the royals — Angelina, Denzel, Leo, Reese — were nowhere to be seen. Maybe they were off shooting films in Europe. Maybe they weren’t invited. Or maybe they had decided to head straight to the ultraexclusive, no-grubby-journalists-allowed parties held by celebrities.', 'Madonna has hosted her party, with Guy Oseary, since 2008. Photography is not encouraged. Jay-Z is newer on the scene. In a repurposed garage of the Chateau Marmont, he will host an Oscar-night event called the “Gold Party,” as he did last year, when some invitations did not even go out until the day of the Oscars.', 'Smartphones, on the other hand, abound at the Vanity Fair party. “Now, every single person in there is a paparazzo,” Mr. Rushfield pointed out, or a marketer amplifying a brand.', "Gabrielle Union, Regina Hall and Olivia Munn, and a smartphone, at last year's bash.", 'Well, not Twitch. But viewers at home can in fact livestream parts of the Vanity Fair wingding from Twitter and the magazine’s website, thanks to the sponsorship of Verizon and two other companies.', 'Tellingly, though, Instagram, the social network preferred by the beautiful people, will not have an official presence at the 2019 Vanity Fair party. The company sponsored a portrait studio there for the past five years but has pulled out to focus on video products like IGTV, a spokeswoman said.', 'Newsstand sales for Vanity Fair dropped 14 percent in the first six months of 2018, to an average of 101,834 copies per issue, compared with the same period a year earlier, according to the most recent data available from the Alliance for Audited Media. Total subscriptions increased 2 percent, to 1.13 million, despite a decline in digital subscribers.', 'Warner Bros., the studio behind “A Star Is Born,” will take over at the Bungalows.', 'All the activity and do-goodery can’t mask that the Academy Awards are losing power. In the late 1990s, when the Vanity Fair party was at its peak (some 15,000 people requested invitations in 1999, according to reports at the time), the Oscars telecast attracted more than 40 million viewers. More than 55 million people tuned in for the 1998 ceremony, when “Titanic” won best picture.', "Janelle Monae wore a Time's Up pin to last year's party.", 'It was not so long ago that the party had “cigarette girls” wandering around, part of the magazine’s ethos of Old Hollywood glamour. But celebrating Old Hollywood — lily-white, often misogynistic — has abruptly fallen out of fashion over the last two years, since the #MeToo movement rocked the culture.', 'That event is hosted by Lancôme. It is the sixth year the company has sponsored a Campaign Hollywood event, and it also advertises in the magazine.', 'In a digital age, said Doreen Arbel, the senior vice president of marketing at Lancôme, a key company strategy is to create real-life experiences that can have a second life as content shared on social media.', 'With some 17 company executives, she too will attend the Vanity Fair party on Sunday.', 'Brooks Barnes is a media and entertainment reporter, covering all things Hollywood. He joined The Times in 2007 as a business reporter focused primarily on The Walt Disney Company. He previously worked for The Wall Street Journal.', 'Hooray for Hollywood?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Working for a New Normal in Italian Fashion’s Understanding of Race
['The Gucci blackface sweater and Dolce & Gabbana’s missteps in China have the knitwear designer Edward Buchanan seeking change.', 'Edward Buchanan, the designer and founder of knitwear label Sansovino 6, in Milan.', 'It was 1996.', 'Certainly, things have changed — somewhat.', 'And Lawrence Steele, an African-American designer who is the associate creative director of Marni and who has lived and worked in Milan for years, said, “I’ve had no difficulties whatsoever in getting a job. They’ve happened spontaneously, and at the brands where I have worked, there has been a language of openness.” He said that Marni has long had a multicultural design team.', "Mr. Buchanan's sketches for a new collection of knitwear.", 'A spokesman for Italy’s National Institute of Statistics, which maintains the country’s census, said it would not release information about the racial makeup of the population.', 'So he has been addressing the reality in the most effective way he knows how: with a collection.', 'The scarves are sold on the Sansovino website for about $45 (the cost of manufacturing, Mr. Buchanan said) and with the request that customers post photos of themselves wearing the scarves or communicate in some way what the slogans mean to them.', 'At the time, he recalled, his network of fashion friends like Emil Wilbekin, a founding editor of Vibe magazine, and Marni Senofonte, an L.A.-based stylist, told him how luxury houses refused to lend their products and how the two were buying from stores to dress rhythm and blues performers.', 'Italian journalist Angelo Flaccavento as, “a mix of Victoriana and R&B,” the fashion label garnered attention from Cher and Iman.', 'Mr. Buchanan later left Italy for New York and went on to consult for Jennifer Lopez’s Sweetface line and Sean Combs’s Sean John collection, eventually closing Leflesh to concentrate on his outside work.', 'In 2009 he returned to Milan and the following year he started Sansovino 6, naming the unisex cashmere line for the factory that produced it. The singer-songwriter Erykah Badu snapped up early pieces.', 'Now Mr. Buchanan is hopeful the industry will start another conversation. Last week Prada announced plans to create an inclusion advisory committee led by the artist and activist Theaster Gates and the director Ava DuVernay. Mr. Buchanan described the move as “very positive,” although he noted that brands “tend to run to the upper echelons of celebrity when addressed with such issues’’ rather than turning for advice to people already working in the business.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Modern Love: Listen: William Jackson Harper Reads ‘Your Dog Has Seen Me Naked’
['Are You My Husband?', 'Mr. Pfeffer is the associate editor at Time Out Miami. In his entertaining 2018 essay, he wrote about the trials of dating women with dogs.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Choupette, Karl Lagerfeld’s Cat, Has a Million Reasons to Purr
['The fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld posed next to a photo of himself and Choupette in 2014.', 'Karl Lagerfeld stole his famously pampered cat, Choupette, and was not ashamed to say so.', 'Despite her luxurious lifestyle, Choupette retained a taste for the simpler feline pleasures.', 'If it turns out that Mr. Lagerfeld left Choupette a substantial inheritance, she will be far from alone: There have been plenty of lucky pets left with eye-popping sums after the deaths of their owners.', 'The billionaire Leona Helmsley and Trouble, her Maltese, in 2003.', 'Jonah Engel Bromwich contributed reporting.', 'After Karl Lagerfeld, What’s Next for Chanel and Fendi?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: Why Do Zebras Have Stripes? Scientists Camouflaged Horses to Find Out
['If you spend time around horses or flies, you might want to invest in some zebra print.', 'Those stripes might be some of nature’s most effective insect repellent.', 'What’s black, white and striped all over — except for its head?', 'Horses wearing zebra coats on a farm in Britain.', 'The animals weren’t attending a masquerade. They were dressed for studies investigating a mystery that has puzzled scientists for more than a century.', 'Wallace were theorizing about evolution, scientists have debated the function of this sassy animal print. It’s been called camouflage to confuse big predators, an identity signal to other zebras and a kind of wearable air conditioner. Now most scientists agree that the function of a zebra’s stripes is to ward off biting flies that can carry deadly diseases.', 'But what exactly is it about a zebra’s wardrobe that flies don’t like?', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'A horse dressed as a zebra to investigate fly behavior in England.', 'The flies pestered all of the horses and the zebras in the paddocks equally. But once they got close, the zebra stripes seemed to dazzle the flies so much that they couldn’t manage a controlled landing. Flies zoomed in too fast and either veered off just in time — or simply bumped into the zebra and bounced off. The flies didn’t seem to like the zebra coats on horses, either, but their bare heads were fair game.', 'The only thing they can say for certain is that the high contrast between black and white most likely tricks the fly’s low-resolution vision, which relies on sensing movement.', 'In an optical illusion called the barber pole, diagonal stripes appear to move up or down, depending on which way the pole is rotating. Something similar could be happening as flies approach zebra stripes. From afar, the fly may interpret the object as gray, but as it moves closer, the zebra’s diagonal stripes may appear to be moving in false directions. As a result, a fly may think it’s headed toward open space instead of landing. Or perhaps the sudden appearance of stripes may overload the fly’s vision and startle it into a buzzing stupor.', 'The researchers are now conducting tests with coats of different patterns, contrasts and thickness, to see just what it is about the stripes that stops the flies. “By playing around with those variables, we’ll be able to get inside the head of the fly, or the eye of the fly, to work out what’s sort of confusing to it,” said Dr. Caro.', 'In the meantime, people planning on being around horses or horse flies may want to consider wearing zebra print rather than a solid to avoid being bitten. You should probably make your horse a twinsie, too.', 'What’s Black and White and Travels 310 Miles?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Uptown, Sackler Protests. Downtown, a Sackler Fashion Line.
['Uptown, Sackler Protests. Downtown, a Sackler Fashion Line.', 'Uptown, Sackler Protests. Downtown, a Sackler Fashion Line.', 'LBV Care of Joss Sackler, a new collection from a member of the family that owns Purdue Pharma, debuted during New York Fashion Week.', 'Looks from the LBV Care of Joss Sackler line.', 'Last week, at the tail end of New York Fashion Week, in a private suite at the Soho Grand Hotel, models with Day-Glo yellow eyelashes and matching parkas dotted the room. They held handbags with the initials LBV molded in gold, and a few carried yellow ice axes.', 'Some looked ready to climb — gilded carabiners sparkled here and there, and\xa0the models wore chunky Lowa climbing boots\xa0—\xa0though others wore see-through lace skirts over their bodysuits.', 'Mrs. Sackler, 34, is the proprietress of LBV, a private social club, from where this collection, LBV Care of Joss Sackler, grew. Mrs. Sackler is an avid climber, so she tailored the clothes to suit her lifestyle: hazard yellow for boulder safety, still a cute look for driving home from the Gunks and going straight to dinner; or a white shirt to throw on over bike shorts after the gym for the school run.', 'LBV grew out of a separate interest, in wine. Wanting to share the appreciation of wine with more women than were in the prestigious wine fraternities Mrs. Sackler belonged to, like the Confrérie des Chevaliers du Tastevin, the Commanderie des Costes du Rhône and the Commanderie de Bordeaux, she founded one of her own.', 'Membership fees begin at $500 annually and go up to $2,500, and Mrs. Sackler estimated that membership hovers at around 50 people.', 'If Mrs. Sackler’s name sounds familiar, it is probably not for the reasons she would like.', 'Mrs. Sackler is married to David Sackler, whose family owns Purdue Pharma, the makers of the prescription painkiller OxyContin. Purdue and the members of the Sackler family behind it have been accused of fomenting, and profiting from, the American opioid epidemic.', 'The Sackler family is one of the richest in America, and has given generously and philanthropically over the years to a large number of institutions, many of which have named schools, research centers, wings, libraries, courtyards, halls and even escalators for them.', 'Given the fury that surrounds the Sackler family, it may stand to reason that Mrs. Sackler’s name would be a liability. When the question was put to her, Mrs. Sackler fell silent and looked away.', 'Mrs. Sackler looked up.', 'Protests Uptown. A Fashion Line Downtown.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Work Friend: Everything Is Temporary
['Life is short. Work is long. Now go and get some beauty rest.', 'Hi. My name is Katy, and I am your new Work Friend.', 'I once had a permanent position as a recruiter. This was back in the Aughts, when newspapers and magazines were thicker and full of fawning profiles of the wealthy and their gorgeous shirts. I was a poet, and like poets everywhere, I ended up working at a quantitative hedge fund.', 'Over 12 years working for a boss and then for myself, I read hundreds of thousands of résumés and interviewed thousands of applicants as they sweated in their starchy suits. I learned an entirely new language, Corporatese, which is full of the most beautiful phrases — like “hands-on” (to describe people who actually do things), “off-line” (to describe a conversation that could get someone in trouble) and “absolute return” (which is simply what an asset returns over time, but which always reminded me of some sort of fancy weight-loss tool).', 'In other words, I am an expert!', 'Is This Real Life?', 'I’m 25 and female, and I work full time. I get seven to eight hours of sleep per night (with some nights of four or five, here and there). Do I just look permanently tired now? Is this adult life? I have pretty huge dark circles under my eyes that I try to cover with makeup, but you can see the “indents.” At the start of this year I tried to bring down the puffiness by putting frozen spoons on my eyes each morning. Inadvertently, I think I may have “shrunk” the fat cells around my eyes, leaving me looking even more gaunt.', 'The bad news is that 25 is just about the magical age when your cells stop reproducing as efficiently as they once did, and your body begins to become an increasingly inaccurate and haggard-looking copy of itself. This means that you do indeed look permanently tired now, at least relative to how you looked before.', 'In the short term, yes, concealer is the answer. A brightener around the eyes can also help, and be sure to use one of the newfangled no-smudge mascaras that are made out of congealing tubes and therefore don’t flake or run.', 'At least you have a full-time job, which means you will accumulate more wealth as your youthful vitality drains out of your body. This is better than not having a job.', 'About two hours ago I got stung by scorpion. Luckily I only have minor symptoms, but damn did it hurt and I’m still in a lot of pain. I have work in six hours and I can’t sleep because of this pain. And I can’t contact anyone to tell them I won’t be able to work because it’s 4 in the morning. This is my first job and I’m not sure what to do. Should I get sleep and wake up way later than I need to go in or do I stay up and wait to contact one of my bosses to tell them I can’t come in?', 'This is a really weird question, but what you’re asking isn’t all that weird. You can’t sleep. You’re in pain. (According to WebMD, you’re not going to die.) I get it. But unless your job requires that you operate heavy machinery or that you operate on people’s hearts, you have to get dressed and go into work even if you’re in pain and freaked out by having been stung by a scorpion! You can’t just call in sick.', 'It doesn’t matter if you slept or not. Your boss doesn’t care if you slept. Your co-workers really don’t care if you slept. I hate to break it to you, but in this life, there are a lot of things besides a scorpion sting that might keep you up at night. You have to get to work on time.', 'I recently noticed a co-worker of mine quietly crying at her desk. She opened up to me a couple weeks ago about some relationship issues, but didn’t go into much detail beyond that. I like and admire her a lot, and I want to let her know I’m here to talk if she needs it, but I don’t know her very well and I’m afraid I’ll come across as nosy/like I’m injecting myself in her business. Should I reach out to her at all? How would I start that conversation? Or is it better to just stay out of it?', 'Some work advice columnists would tell you to be a human and reach out to this sad person. Some work advice columnists would tell you to be a vicious corporate climber and not reach out to this sad person. I am going to tell you that work is long. You are hired into environments with other people, whom you did not choose. They could be serial killers for all you know. At the very least, they could turn out to be vicious corporate climbers.', 'If you befriend someone too quickly and then discover that person is vicious, you will be trapped, potentially for decades. If you befriend someone slowly, on the other hand, you are more likely to achieve a trusting friendship that may last for years — and well beyond the cubicle. There is plenty of time to make friends in the workplace. And if she really needs to talk it through, your sad friend can find someone outside the office.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Revelations of Grace Wales Bonner
['The designer channeled —\xa0and collaborated with —\xa0black American intellectuals and the black spiritual tradition for a moving show during London Fashion Week.', 'Ms. Wales Bonner’s collections often engage with the black experience, especially as it migrates around the globe. The feeling of her new collection was identifiably African-American: She had looked through yearbooks from Howard University and focused on pieces like varsity jackets, baseball jerseys, jeans and boxy tailored jackets, reworking them with flourishes of West Africa and the Caribbean like the found feathers that peeped out of pockets and trimmed the hem of a jersey.', 'It was affecting, and effective. With the exhibition as backdrop, her show felt separate from the usual ebb and flow of fashion week. But the collection rose to the occasion. Ms. Wales Bonner’s elongated tuxedo jackets, pinned with brooches that suggested talismans, were some of the most desirable pieces shown all week.', 'Where Did That Designer Get That Idea?', 'Collection after collection, show after show, Ms. Wales Bonner is signing off on her own Revelations of Grace. Connecting herself so consciously with the greats is a bold gesture but in its ongoing arc, her work has a magnetism and resonance rare in contemporary fashion.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Bihar abuse case: CBI told to appoint SPP
['Expressing displeasure over the delay in appointment of a Special Public Prosecutor in the Muzaffarpur shelter home abuse case, a Delhi court on Monday asked the CBI to make the appointment within two days.', 'The court also directed the investigating officer of the agency to make available within two days a CD containing scanned copies of the chargesheet and other documents to the counsel for the accused.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.']


Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.
['Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.', 'Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.', 'A day after snowfall halted the search operation for five jawans, who went missing last week after an avalanche hit Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, the operation began again on Monday, officials said.', 'The search was halted on Sunday due to intermittent snowfall throughout the day. No clues were found till then.', 'As the search operation entered the sixth day on Monday, officials said chances of survival of those trapped in the snow were slim.', 'Many mountaineers from the area are also involved in the operation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Amarinder hits back at BJP president
['Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit back at Amit Shah on Monday, a day after the BJP chief accused him of “halting” development work in the State. “The BJP, along with its ally Shiromani Akali Dal, are resorting to lies in their desperate bid to reclaim the lost political ground in Punjab,” the Chief Minister claimed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Search starts again for five jawans in H.P.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Social security cover for farmers and workers in Haryana budget
['Finance Minister Captain Abhimanyu presenting the budget at the Assembly in Chandigarh on Monday.', 'With focus on agriculture and allied sectors, Haryana Finance Minister Capt. Abhimanyu on Monday presented tax-free budget proposals for 2019-20 with a total outlay of ₹1,32,165.99 crore, 14.73% more than last year.', 'Presenting the budget proposals in the Assembly, Capt. Abhimanyu announced two new schemes to provide financial and social security cover to families of farmers with landholding of up to five acres, and those of workers in the unorganised sectors with family income of less than ₹15,000 per month.', 'The budget proposes to raise the outlay for agriculture and allied services to ₹3,834.33 crore in 2019-20 as against ₹3,670.29 crore in 2018-19.', 'The proposed budget does not include any new taxes for 2019-20. “This year also, I do not intend to propose any change in the present rate of taxes under the Haryana Value Added Tax Act, 2003, or introduce any new tax in the budget estimates for the fiscal 2019-20,” he said.', 'Capt. Abhimanyu said during 2018-19, as per advance estimates, the Gross State Domestic Product of Haryana was expected to achieve a growth of 8.2% as against 7.2% recorded at the national level.', 'The Finance Minister said the State’s fiscal deficit had been kept within the limit of 3% prescribed by the 14th Finance Commission even though the demand for funds for development activities had increased manifold over the years.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Spurious liquor death toll rises to 155
['The death toll in the Assam hooch tragedy touched 155 on Monday as preliminary investigation identified methanol and jaggery as the killer combination.', 'The disaster struck some villages around two tea estates in as many eastern Assam districts on Thursday night. According to data provided by the government in the Assembly on Monday, 95 and 60 people have so far died in Golaghat and Jorhat districts. Of the deceased, 45 are women. The administrative heads of the districts said a total of 268 people were undergoing treatment.', 'Excise Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said preliminary investigation had pointed to faulty distillation with a lethal mix of liquid jaggery and methyl alcohol. “We have sent samples of liquor as well as viscera of the deceased for forensic test,” he said.', 'Doctors at the Jorhat Medical College Hospital, where most of the patients are undergoing treatment, said it was difficult to save people once methyl alcohol or methanol enters the bloodstream.', 'Excise officials said 34 illegal brewers and vendors have been arrested in the two affected districts in crackdowns on liquor dens since Friday. Police and excise personnel have so far registered more than 100 cases apart from destroying 76,000 litres of spurious liquor in the two districts alone.', 'Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and Congress MLA Ajanta Neog said uneducated tea plantation workers had been paying the price of an “unholy nexus” between liquor traders and excise officials.', 'The tea estates where the plantation workers have died after consuming spurious liquor fall within the Assembly constituencies of Mr. Gogoi (Titabor) and Ms. Neog (Golaghat).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ex-IPS official blames Bengal CM for suicide
['A retired IPS officer, who committed suicide last week, blamed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for his death, a charge dismissed by the ruling Trinamool Congress as “baseless”.', 'In a six-page letter to the chief minister, Gaurav Chandra Dutt, who retired earlier this year, accused her of abetting his suicide by keeping him in “compulsory waiting” for a posting. The 1986-batch IPS officer also alleged he was “harassed and tortured in devious ways” by various State institutions at the behest of the chief Minister.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Remove Arunachal CM and Rijiju: Cong.
['Remove Arunachal CM and Rijiju: Cong.', 'Remove Arunachal CM and Rijiju: Cong.', 'Raging fire: A building set on fire during a protest in Itanagar.', 'The Congress on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge into the violence in Arunachal Pradesh that left at least three people dead and several injured. The party sought the removal of Chief Minister Pema Khandu and Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kiren Rijiju for accusing the Congress of “instigating” the people.', 'Senior leader Luizinho Faleiro, former Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Nabam Tuki and Arunachal Pradesh Congress chief Takam Sanjoy submitted a memorandum to Home Minister Rajnath Singh’s office.', 'At a press conference, Mr. Sanjoy accused the BJP government in the State of pursuing divisive politics by first bringing in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and then deciding to grant permanent residents certificate (PRC) to six tribal communities from outside Arunachal Pradesh. “Why does the BJP want to make Arunachal Pradesh a second Kashmir,” he asked.', 'Alleging that Mr. Rijiju, MP from the State, had failed the people of Arunachal Pradesh by not trying to restore normality, the Congress demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi ask him to step down or sack him.', 'Violent protests broke out in the State over the decision to grant the PRC to Deoris, Sonowal-Kacharis, Morans, Adivasis and Mishings, who are living in Namsai and Changlang districts of the State and the Gorkhas living in Vijaynagar.', 'Though the State government scrapped its decisions following the protests, the Congress leaders pointed out the situation was tense and Chief Minister Pema Khandu had failed to effectively to handle the situation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Crucial CWC meet in Gujarat on Thursday
['For the first time after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was made a Congress general secretary, she will share a stage with her mother and party leader, Sonia Gandhi, along with party president Rahul Gandhi, in Gujarat on Thursday.', 'The meeting will be preceded by a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the top decision-making body of the Congress, at Sardar Patel Memorial here.', 'The CWC meeting is being held in the State more than six decades after the previous meeting held in 1961.', 'During the meeting, the main Opposition party is likely to pass several resolutions against the Modi government and its failures on various fronts.', 'After the meeting, a public meeting has been organised at Adalaj, near Gandhinagar, in which top Congress leaders will address more than 50,000 people expected for the Jan Akrosh rally.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Remove Arunachal CM and Rijiju: Cong.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


PM asked to clarify on ‘military build-up’ in Mizoram
['The People’s Representation for Identity and Status of Mizoram (PRISM), a corruption watchdog turned political party, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking clarification on the reported military build-up along the State’s border with Myanmar.', 'In a letter to the Prime Minister on Monday, the PRISM said Mizoram has no disturbed area necessitating militarisation. Mizoram has six international border districts — Champhai, Serchhip, Lunglei, Siaha, Lawngtlai, and Mamit — where there is neither disturbance nor law and order problems, it pointed out.', 'There have been reports of deployment of extra forces along Mizoram’s border with Myanmar following drive against extremist groups such as Arakan Army by that country’s military. Officials of Assam Rifles said the movement of extra troops was part of “routine exercises” along the border.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BSP likely to contest all 40 seats in Bihar
['The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is likely to contest all the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar, a move that could dent the efforts of forming a formidable anti-NDA alliance in the state ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Party chief Mayawati has called a meeting in New Delhi on February 28 to take a final decision on the issue.', 'In Parliamentary constituencies sharing border with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, such as Gopalgunj, Kaimur and Rohtas, the BSP wields some influence. In the last Assembly elections in 2015, the BSP had polled a meagre 2.07 % of the total votes. Of the 228 seats it had contested, all except three had lost their deposits.', 'According to BSP state in-charge Lalji Medhkar and state party president Bharat Bind, Ms. Mayawati has instructed them to start preparations for all 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar.', 'Earlier, Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly and RJD leader Tejaswi Yadav had gone to Lucknow to greet Mayawati on her birthday and, according to party sources, had offered the BSP two Lok Sabha seats in Bihar.', 'The Grand Alliance comprises the RJD, Congress, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM (S), Vikassheel Insaan Party, and the CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


NC, PDP warning on Article 370
['National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah and People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday warned the Centre against any move “aimed at scrapping Article 35A” that grants special rights to the people of Jammu and Kashmir on owning property and getting jobs.', 'Ms. Mufti said: “Article 35A is a part of Article 370 which confers certain rights to citizens of the State. By launching an assault on Article 35-A, there are attempts being made to change the Muslim-majority character of J&K. Scrapping it will nullify the legitimacy of accession of J&K with the Indian Union,” warned Ms. Mufti.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Owner of Pulwama terror attack vehicle has joined JeM: NIA
["Security men inspect at the site blast in Lethpora area of south Kashmir' s Pulwama district some 20 kilometers from Srinagar, Thursday, 14 February 2019.", 'The owner of the vehicle has since joined the terror outfit, the agency said.', 'Terming it a “significant breakthrough in the investigation,” an NIA spokesman said they were able to piece together remnants of the vehicle. “With the support of forensic and automobile experts, the NIA has been able to identify the vehicle used for the blast,” he said.', 'Bhat’s house was raided by an NIA team and the police on February 23. “However, Sajjad was not found and has been evading arrest since then. He has reportedly now joined the JeM,” said the NIA.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strike in Balakot: Who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chennai’s Senate House opens its doors to the public
['It stands at the site of what was once the Nawab of Arcot’s artillery park. From its shady boulevard guns were fired to greet visitors. Today, Senate House stands a silent sentinel gazing at the Marina as students mill about its grounds, pigeons roost in its eaves and visitors throng the Chennai Photo Biennale’s exhibition held in its ornate halls.', 'Senate House was completed in 1879. The library and teaching departments were built in similar style to lend it continuity. The fragile beauty of Senate House was the result of the genius of Robert Fellowes Chisholm who as a young engineer at 21 won a contest and was chosen to design Presidency College and a building to house the offices of the University. Chisholm is also credited with designing the Lakshmi Vilas Palace and the Museum in Baroda, Lawrence school in Ooty and the Rangoon Cathedral. In a way, he changed the skyline of Madras and by the end of his tenure in India in 1902 was considered the master of Indo-Saracenic architecture.', 'The main door of Senate House faces the Centenary buildings and opens to the Great Hall (150 feet long, 60 feet wide and 50 feet high from boarded floor to ornate, canvas ceiling). It was here that convocations were once held, here that students in robes and academic caps celebrated in jubilation before the University expanded and convocations were held at the Centenary auditorium across the road. When the first Assembly was constituted in 1937, it was here that it met.', 'Light from the evening sun filters through the arcaded verandahs supported by stone capitals with Indian figurines. The red hand-pressed brick is firm to the touch and cool despite the searing heat. Broomhall’s tiles cover the roofs from where pigeons fly out to wheel over the Bay and back. Windows — shuttered, vertical and circular — covered in stained glass and woodwork lend it the solemn air of a cathedral. Mooresque colours dominate the walls and lecture halls on the floor above are accessed through grand stairways. The minarets and porches lend it a fabled feel. From the star-embossed stone porches one can see the almost-forgotten statue of Queen Victoria seated shrouded under a canopy of wild bushes. Gazing at the sea and the cars parked in front of it with its back to Senate House is the statue of S Subramania Aiyar, first Indian Vice Chancellor.', 'On the day I visit, work is in progress for the Biennale. The clickety-clack of a typewriter from the Publications office on the ground floor echoes through the hall. Workers erect installations and artists are at work. Dust dances in the sunbeams that light up the floor and lends Senate Hall a touch of fast-fading old world grace. Go before its doors close and its beauty blushes unseen.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A run that helps raise funds for rare diseases
['No holds barred: Several participants took part enthusiastically on Sunday.', 'Persons with rare diseases, their parents and care-givers participated in a 7-km run from Olcot School in Besant Nagar on Sunday under the initiative of ‘Race For 7’ championed by Organization for Rare Diseases India (ORDI).', 'Former IAS officer Santha Sheela Nair flagged off the run and joined the runners to raise funds for the cause. S. Suresh, honorary secretary, Voluntary Health Services Chennai, A.T. Arasar Seeralar, Director, Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children and actor Babloo Prithiveeraj were present.', 'Race for 7 symbolically represents 7,000 rare diseases with the 7 km representing the average number of years it takes to diagnose such diseases.', 'It is held in February to commemorate the World Rare Disease Day, which falls on the last day of the month. The theme for Rare Disease Day 2019 is ‘Bridging health and social care’.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


‘Impact-based forecasting more precise’
['Impact-based forecasting is the next step in weather prediction services.', 'India Meteorological Department (IMD) has started incorporating more details of damage that could occur in a region during the landfall of a cyclone. “This is the first step towards providing impact-based forecast,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai.', 'He was speaking on the measures being taken to improve predictions on the sidelines of a ‘Seminar on Monsoons 2018’ held on Monday. “Efforts are on as part of the Monsoon Mission of India, a project of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. For instance, we could provide forecast on various factors such as the kind of impact of a wind blowing at a particular speed in exact locations or areas likely to be inundated with improved accuracy in ensemble predictions and observational network,” he said. The Monsoon Mission of India was aimed at improving monsoon prediction through high resolution models.', 'He earlier elaborated on aspects of Northeast monsoon in 2018 that had four cyclones, factors that delayed onset of monsoon and cyclone Gaja and Pethai. Cyclones Titli and Luban took away the moisture from the region and that led to drastic reduction in rainfall over Tamil Nadu, he noted.', 'Moreover, clustering of tropical cyclones occurred simultaneously in the northern hemisphere. Global weather parameters were also not much conducive for a normal monsoon, he added.', 'N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, spoke on the aspects of Southwest monsoon 2018 and factors that contributed to early onset. Cyclones Titli and Luban delayed withdrawal of the monsoon in the region. B. Arul Malar Kannan, Scientist in-charge of Doppler Weather Radar facility, Chennai spoke on challenges in tracking cyclones in 2018.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


‘Doubts cast over EVMs unfortunate’
['He said it was unfortunate that doubts are cast over EVMs. “The trend I am seeing is that those who win immediately take out a victory procession. But some who lose, cast doubts. This has gained currency in recent times. But this issue, one way or the other, has gone to high courts at different times. The EVMs were used comprehensively in 2004. But even before, when they were used selectively, people have approached high courts. Until now, all high courts have stood by the machine. And now the matter is in the Supreme Court," said Mr. Chawla.', 'Mr. Gandhi said that the voters have confidence in the machine and the woman/man who is monitoring and operating the machine. “Nobody in India is going to doubt that the election machinery is going to do any manipulation,” he said. Mr. Chawla also said that India should think about public funding for elections.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


TNSCB helps resettled families acquire skill training
['Future-ready: M.S. Shanmugam, TNSCB managing director, handing over a tool kit to a beneficiary.', 'To ensure a decent livelihood for residents of Kakanji Nagar, who were evicted and resettled in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements at Athipattu, the board has come up with a slew of measures including skill training and distribution of tool kits for setting up their own business. It also plans to hold a job fair soon.', 'Over 1,500 families, who were living on the Chennai Metrowater lines in Kakkanji Nagar on New Avadi Road, were evicted last year.', 'In a bid to ensure that their livelihood is not affected, the TNSCB, through its Community Development Wing, imparted training to 950 individuals in different skills including tailoring, driving, painting, beautician course among others before they were shifted, officials said.', 'M.S. Shanmugam, TNSCB managing director, recently distributed tool kits to those who underwent the training. One such beneficiary is 18-year-old M. Sneha. “I have to work and meet the expenses in my house. I was initially thinking of going for work. But I underwent the three-month beautician course. I now plan to start my own centre,” she said.', 'A. Satish, another beneficiary, is an M.Com Second Year student at Pachaiyappa’s College. He got a driving licence with the help of the TNSCB. “As of now I work part-time as a pizza delivery boy to meet my educational expenses. With the driving licence, I will now drive call-taxi at nights and in due course purchase my own car,” he said. The TNSCB also plans to help residents get bank loans to start their own business.', 'A job fair will also be organised in Athipattu after the Lok Sabha elections are over. Around 250 youngsters/job seekers are expected to benefit.', 'Meanwhile, Vanessa Peter, policy researcher, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), called for uniformity in executing the Resettlement and Rehabilitation programmes. “They are executed without a concrete policy and are discriminatory in nature.” she said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


‘Sleep deprivation in children rising’
['When the situation became difficult to manage, Shyamala took a break from work, and later, switched to a job that enabled her to reach home and put her daughter to bed early.', 'Many children were not getting adequate sleep nowadays, observed S. Balasubramanian, medical director of Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital.', 'In his two decades of practice, P. Ramkumar, senior consultant, paediatrician, has been noticing the drastic reduction in sleeping hours for children.', 'But more than the medical causes, it is screen time — television, cell phone, video games and laptop — that is decreasing the sleeping time, he added.', 'Koushik Muthuraja, consultant, pulmonologist and sleep specialist, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, said children should ideally sleep for eight hours.', 'Irritability, generalised tiredness, lack of concentration, lack of memory and mood changes occur due to lack of adequate sleep, he observed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


HC stays proceedings against S.Ve. Shekher
['The Madras High Court on Monday stayed all further proceedings in a case pending against actor S.Ve. Shekher before a Judicial Magistrate court at Ambattur here. The case had been taken up on the basis of a private complaint lodged in connection with a “derogatory” post that he had shared on his Facebook page after Governor Banwarilal Purohit patted a woman journalist on her cheek during a press conference on April 17 last year.', 'Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan granted the interim stay and adjourned the actor’s quash petition by four weeks. Claiming that he was not the author of the Facebook post and that he had inadvertently shared the post, penned by another individual, without even reading it, the petitioner said, he need not be made to face the arduous task of facing the trial when he was not the author of the post. He also alleged that the complaint had been lodged to tarnish his image.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


HC dismisses plea to act against Loyola College principal
['The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the State government to initiate criminal as well as departmental action against the principal of Loyola College for having allowed “derogatory” exhibits, against Hinduism in general as well as the Prime Minister in particular, to be displayed at an art festival held on the college campus last month.', 'A Division Bench of Justices S. Manikumar and Subramonium Prasad refused to entertain the case on the ground that the petitioner Vedha alias Dhamodharan, editor of Microstat, an online source of socio-economic database, had given a representation to the Director General of Police but made the Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai alone as a party respondent to the PIL petition.', 'They also said that even if the police failed to register a case on the basis of the representation, the petitioner had an effective alternative remedy of approaching the judicial magistrate concerned with a private complaint.', 'The art exhibition was held on the college campus on January 19 and 20.', 'When word spread about a few objectionable paintings having been displayed, Kaleeswaran, the coordinator of the Art and Literary unit of Loyola Student Support Service issued an apology for having allowed the campus to be used for displaying the derogative exhibits against a particular religious group and the country’s leadership.', 'Though the issue soon died down, Mr. Dhamodharan had filed the PIL petition claiming that the exhibits were displayed with an oblique motive to create a clash between two different religious groups.', 'Further, stating that those exhibits were being circulated widely on the social media, the petitioner said, he suffered “severe depression and hardship” after watching them.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


Need for awareness of LGBT rights: activists
['In the wake of a woman from Coimbatore, belonging to the LGBT community, seeking help from the Chennai police after her parents reportedly threatened her and her partner, activists feel that there is a need for increased awareness about the rights of the LGBT community among parents and police.', 'A few months ago, Sivagami (name changed), a woman police constable working in Chennai, and Kavitha (name changed), a third-year-engineering student from Coimbatore, got into a relationship. “They met through a common friend. Kavitha informed her parents about her orientation, and asked them not to look for any alliance,” said T.D. Sivakumar, co-founder, Nirangal.', 'Though Sivagami’s mother agreed to the relationship, Kavitha faced resistance from her parents. Subsequently Kavitha came to Chennai and took refuge with an NGO. Her parents contacted the NGO and tried to take their daughter back with them. As they failed in their attempts, they sought help from the Tirumangalam police.', 'On February 18, Kavitha and Sivagami were summoned to the Tirumangalam police station. “Police personnel were talking about Tamil culture and wanted Kavitha to go back with her parents,” said another activist.', 'Senior police officers, however, claimed that they only counselled the parents and the two women. “Being adults, we cannot deny their right to choose their life partner,” said a senior police officer. Subsequently, Kavitha went back to the NGO, while Sivagami has been transferred to another wing in the police department.', 'However, activists feel that Sivagami continues to be at risk of an attack by Kavitha’s parents.', 'L. Ramakrishnan from the public health NGO SAATHII suggested that the DGP send a circular to all police stations in the State.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


It’s water tankers to the rescue
['Summer is yet to fully kick in but there is already a rise in demand for tankers, as several parts of the city are experiencing a dip in piped water supply.', 'The city continues to get a supply of 550 million litres on alternate days. The proportion of water supply through tankers has, however, marginally increased compared to last month, officials said. At present, about 6,450 tanker trips are being operated daily, which is nearly 100 trips more than in January. Of this, nearly 2,500 trips are being plied on a payment basis.', 'Residents, especially in south Chennai, are feeling the pinch. They noted that it took between seven and 10 days for tanker supply booked on a payment basis to arrive. S. Kumararaja, a resident of Velachery, said piped water supply had dipped to once in three days. Many are managing with borewells, and groundwater too is fast depleting. Residents of Gandhi Nagar, Adyar, said some parts had stopped receiving piped water supply and illegal water trips were being carried out. Some residents have started creating infrastructure to store more water.', 'V.S. Jayaraman, a resident of T. Nagar, said, “We get water through pipeline once in two or three days at our apartment complex and the volume has reduced. We use groundwater sparingly and depend on mobile water supply. It is difficult to book six-kilolitre capacity tankers and we need two or three tanker trips per week. We are now constructing a sump of larger capacity for tanker water.” Sources at Metrowater said parts of the city may experience shortage depending on the source from where it is distributed. Though Metrowater has decided on buffer sources to meet the summer demand, it is yet to start putting them for use.', 'The city reservoirs continue to remain one of the key sources, thanks to Krishna water supply from Andhra Pradesh from early this month. This has helped maintain the storage at the same level, according to officials of the Water Resources Department. Meanwhile, Metrowater has tested the water drawal process from abandoned quarries in Sikkarayapuram near Mangadu. It plans to draw water from quarries by this week-end and link it to Chembarambakkam treatment plant.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


12- day workout plan for New Year that's actually doable
['The catalyst for many changes can be the upcoming New Year’s Eve. We all want to look our best and flaunt our figure for the most happening party of the year. Agree?If you are nodding your head, this video is for you. If getting fit seems impossible at this time of the year with loads of temptations looking your way, you don’t need to panic. We bring to you this ultimate workout video that promises to tone your body and cut that extra fat in just 12 days. Jinni Shaikh shows us a full body workout that includes 14 exercises. These exercises, when performed every day for 30 minutes, can work wonders by making you look the best version of you.Jinni Shaikh is an Instagram influencer with around 80k followers. She is a fitness enthusiast, trainer and a nutritionist. For a healthy weight loss, having a nutritious diet and keeping oneself hydrated is of utmost importance.What are you waiting for? Get set go!', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Watching this elderly couple working out will make your day
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


5 - minute strength and conditioning training
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Home remedies for cold and flu
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


6 minutes full body workout with Nidhi Mohan Kamal
['Our busy schedules of 9 to 5 often leave us with excuses to miss our gym. Rather than pushing ourselves to move and workout, we end up skipping exercise altogether. But what if we tell you that even on your busiest days, when you do not have the time to go to the gym, there is a way to maintain your fitness schedule. Sounds great, doesn’t it?With our aim to keep you all fit, despite your busy schedules, we bring to you a quick 6-minute no equipment workout video we shot with Nidhi Mohan Kamal.Nidhi Mohan Kamal is a famous Instagram celebrity. She is a food scientist, nutritionist and a certified fitness trainer. With nearly 60,000 followers, she is an inspiration to many.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Home remedies to relieve throbbing sinus headache
['Sinus is caused when excess mucus builds behind the cavities of the face. It is basically the inflammation of the mucous membrane that causes an unbearable pain in the forehead and unbearable pressure on the face. Fortunately, there is an array of home remedies that can provide immediate relief from the sinus pain or at least make it more bearable. What is the one thing, which has the ability to single-handedly ruin your day? Think of a pulsating, throbbing headache with stinging pain. In addition to a migraine, it is a sinus headache that sends us running for painkillers.Apart from the incessant throbbing, one can also feel pressure around the forehead, cheeks and eyes. Experts advise us against taking antibiotics to treat the painful pressure as it is mostly caused by viruses. Here are some of the best home remedies that will help you relieve you from the stinging sinus pain. The best part is that they are extremely easy to do!', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Why rasmalai is the healthiest dessert this shaadi season
['During the wedding season, it becomes super hard to fight the temptation and making a healthy choice is obviously difficult. Here we tell you why you should never skip the rasmalai.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


BUSTED: 5 HIV AIDS MYTHS
['December 1 is marked as the World Aids Day. There are a lot of myths about how one can contract HIV. It is important that we know how HIV is transmitted, in order to safeguard ourselves against the deadly virus. Here we are debunking these myths one by one.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Push up challenge
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!", 'Katrina does unimaginable push-ups, but there is a catch!', 'Try Hindu push-ups to tone your body!']


Weekly Books News (Nov 5-11)
["Watch this week's top books news!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Deepika will be the prettiest bride ever, here's proof!
['Beauty looks of Deepika Padukone that prove she will be the prettiest bride ever!', 'Beauty looks of Deepika Padukone that prove she will be the prettiest bride ever!', "Deepika, who's known for her regal style has already made our expectations high for the big day. To celebrate the beauty, we have charted her best beauty looks that prove she will be the prettiest bride ever!", 'Beauty looks of Deepika Padukone that prove she will be the prettiest bride ever!', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


This pungent oil can end your skin woes
['We have heard of the beauty benefits of coconut oil and olive oil time and again, but we are sure you have never thought of mustard oil as something that can enhance your beauty, have you? Well, mustard oil might remind you of pickle, but its beauty benefits will leave you surprised.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Home remedies to fight dengue
['Dengue epidemic is on the rise, stroger than before.  In this video, we show you some simple and easy home remedies which can help you keep the deadly infection at bay.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


8 essential tips for a happy and safe Diwali
['Here are some simple and easy solutions to ensure a happy and safe Diwali with your loved ones!', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Home remedies for pollution
['Here are also some easy home remedies that can beat the negative effect of the toxic air we breathe.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


TRX Exercises for Beginners  1
["Want to lose weight quick? Here's an easy excersice that will help you burn calories faster!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


I-League: Real Kashmir-East Bengal match moved to Delhi from Srinagar
['With the situation in the Kashmir valley continuing to be tense, the AIFF League Committee has decided to shift Thursday’s Real Kashmir-East Bengal I-League fixture to Delhi from Srinagar.', 'The call was made after Real Kashmir informed the Committee in writing that it wanted the match played at a neutral venue in view of the prevailing security situation.', 'The effect was felt on the I-League second division too, with Wednesday’s encounter between Lonestar Kashmir and Bengaluru FC-B now postponed.', 'This comes after Sunday’s match involving Lonestar and ARA was called off as security agencies refused clearance. I-League CEO Sunando Dhar, however, expressed confidence that Lonestar’s next home game on March 3 would take place as scheduled.', 'It was also decided to refer the matter pertaining to Minerva Punjab FC’s no-show in Srinagar on February 18 to the AIFF Executive Committee. Real Kashmir, on its part, maintained that the present uncertainty was not prevalent in Srinagar during the February 16 to 19 period.', 'Further, March 15 and 16 were announced as dates for the Hero Super Cup qualifiers in Bhubaneswar. The final round of the tournament will be held from March 29 to April 13 with the exact schedule set to be finalised once the AFC Cup itinerary is out.', 'The final round of the Hero Indian Women’s League will be held in May.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


I-League: Aizawl spoils East Bengal’s chances
['Aizawl FC, reduced to 10 men, played an inspired game to hold East Bengal to a 1-1 draw in their Hero I-League match at the Salt Lake Stadium on Monday.', 'The result wasn’t an ideal one for the Kolkata giant which needed a win to keep itself in the hunt for its maiden title. East Bengal is in the second spot with 33 points from 17 matches while Chennai City FC has 40 from 18.', 'Failing to get its strategy right, the host conceded an early goal when Alfred Jaryan sent a perfect cross to Leonce Dodoz.', 'The Ivorian chipped the ball over a charging East Bengal goalkeeper Rakshit Dagar.', 'The visitor could well have doubled the lead in the final minute of the opening half, but the referee disallowed Ansumana Kromah’s goal.', 'The Liberian forward came up with a smart move, screening Dagar who was trying to reach his colleagues upfront after intercepting a floater coming from the Aizawl midfield. Even as Dagar released the ball, Kroma intercepted it and slotted home only to see the referee Umesh Bora hauling him up for infringement and booking him for the offence.', 'East Bengal doubled the initiative after the break but continued to remain off-target despite creating a number of scoring opportunities. Coach Alejandro Menendez introduced the fifth foreigner in Spaniard Toni Dovale in the 57th minute, looking to spruce up the attack.', 'This gave the home attack better direction as the combination between Dovale and Samad Ali Mallick on the right provided an opportunity in the 66th minute. Dovale set it up for an overlapping Samad whose cross into the box saw Enrique Esqueda find the target.', 'Aizawl was reduced to 10 in the 70th minute when it lost defender Kareem Omolaja Nurain who was sent off for dissent after the referee had booked him for an infringement. East Bengal tried to make the most of the number advantage but failed.', 'East Bengal 1 (Enrique Esqueda 66) drew with Aizawl FC 1 (Leonce Dodoz 23).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chelsea vs Man City EPL final: statistical highlights
['Karachi Bakery controversy: what is it all about?', 'Manchester City, which for many minutes was at the mercy of Chelsea, managed to survive, and then prevailed 4—3 in a shootout to win the English Football League Cup final.', 'With the win, Man City captured its first trophy of the campaign, but three others are still pending as the squad is just one point in back of Liverpool, who leads the English Premier League, and has already gotten into the elimination stages of the Champions League and FA cup quarterfinals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.']


Dynamos proves too good for Pune
['Delhi Dynamos, high on adrenalin after a shock win over Bengaluru FC, carried the mood and momentum against FC Pune City to win 3-1 on the back of three superb strikes in their ISL match at the Balewadi Stadium on Sunday.', 'The home team drew level 1-1 but felt short in finishing against goalkeeper Francisco Dorronsoro. The visitors remained eighth after their fourth win in 17 games and Pune stayed seventh.', 'Lalhianzuala Chhangte fired a first-time volley into the roof of the net for the first goal and Daniel Lalhimpuia swept home the third goal on the rebound before goalkeeper Kamaljit Singh had time to react after blocking the first attempt by Ulises Davila from close. Romeo Fernandes, the provider for the first goal, got his name on the scoresheet with a looping right-footer from way out on the right flank.', 'Two opportunistic efforts stood out in a pacy first half. The visitors went ahead through a stunning finish by Chhangte in the goalmouth, deflecting home a precise cross on the run by Fernandes from the right flank. The curling ball escaped the defenders rushing back into position, the pocket-sized striker slipped into position and volleyed high and home in the 17th minute.', 'Pune’s equaliser happened out of the blue as Nikhil Poojary weaved his way in from the right of the midfield. As if trying to spot a teammate to pass the ball, the midfielder produced a thundering long-ranger with his left foot and Dorrosorro, not expecting the outrageous attempt from so far out, just witnessed the ball curl into the net.', 'Kamaljit, guarding the goal for Pune, had no time to react either when the ball flew across him the first time Delhi scored. He was beaten by the angle of the ball when Dynamos again to take the lead. Dorrosoro, in the rival goal, did well to parry a fierce low shot to the near post by Marcelinho, hit through a maze of legs.', 'Pune, missing the services of midfielder Adil Khan, Diego Carlos and Marko Stankovic due to various reasons, had to replace international Ashique Kuruniyan in the first half after the player clashed with a rival.', 'Marcelinho got sent off after collecting a second yellow card in the closing stages for a foul on the rival goalkeeper, leading to a charge at the Brazilian by Martin Diaz who was also yellow-carded.', 'Delhi Dynamos FC 3 (Lallianquala Chhangte 17, Romeo Fernandes 30, Daniel Lalhimpuia 53) bt FC Pune City 1 (Nikhil Poojary 23).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Euro Leagues: Stalemate gives Liverpool top spot
['Big save: The game’s only clear chance fell Jesse Lingard’s way, but Alisson crucial intervention denied him.', 'Liverpool took over at the top of the Premier League table despite being held to a 0-0 draw against Manchester United on Sunday.', 'Juergen Klopp’s side now has 66 points from 27 games while second placed Manchester City has 65 from the same number of games.', 'While the point means that Liverpool has the destiny of the title in theiits own hands now — with 11 games remaining — it will be disappointed not to have taken advantage of an injury-ravaged United.', 'Having lost holding midfielder Nemanja Matic to injury before the game, Spanish midfielder Ander Herrera went off in the 20th minute and Juan Mata was replaced by Jesse Lingard five minutes later.', 'But Lingard didn’t even last until the break as he suffered what appeared to be a recurrence of his hamstring strain and limped off to be replaced by Alexis Sanchez.', 'Amid those three United injuries, Liverpool also lost its Brazilian forward Roberto Firmino to a muscle strain.', 'After such a messy first half, neither side was able to truly get into their stride in a disappointing game.', 'Arsenal 2 (Lacazette 6, Mkhitaryan 17) bt Southampton 0; Manchester United 0 drew with Liverpool 0.', 'Leganes 1 (Braithwaite 89) drew with Valencia 1 (Kondogbia 22).', 'Sampdoria 1 (Quagliarella 66-pen) bt Cagliari 0; Bologna 0 lost to Juventus 1 (Dybala 67); Chievo 0 drew with Genoa 0; Sassuolo 1 (Peluso 43) drew with SPAL 1 (Petagna 68-pen).', 'Alaves 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0; Athletic Bilbao 1 (Raul Garcia 1) bt Eibar 0.', 'Leicester 1 (Evans 64) lost to Crystal Palace 4 (Batshuayi 40, Zaha 70, 90, Milivojevic 81-pen).', 'Torino 2 (Izzo 42, Falque 46) bt Atalanta 0; Frosinone 2 (Ciano 5, Pinamonti 80) lost to Roma 3 (Dzeko 30, 90+5, Pellegrini 31).', 'Borussia Monchengladbach 0 lost to VfL Wolfsburg 3 (Gerhardt 38, Mehmedi 68, 83); SC Freiburg 5 (Petersen 9, 43, Grifo 30, Waldschmidt 64, Niederlechner 85) bt Augsburg 1 (Khedira 52); Mainz 3 (Onisiwo 18, 84, Mateta 73) bt Schalke 0; Werder Bremen 1 (Klaassen 45) drew with Stuttgart 1 (Zuber 2); Fortuna Duesseldorf 2 (Ewerton 63-og, Ayhan 83) bt Nuremberg 1 (Lowen 41).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Weekly Books News (Oct 29-Nov 4)
["Watch this week's top books news!", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Weekly Books News (Oct 22-28)
['There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


How to make rose aloe vera gel at home
['Aloe Vera is known as a wonder plant and is used for many health and medicinal uses. This plant can do wonders for your skin and is truly a beauty saviour. Loaded with antifungal and antibacterial properties, this gel can prove to be a magic potion for many beauty woes.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', "If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valentine's Day as?", "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calendar!"]


Letters to the Editor - February 26, 2019
['The story of how a pregnant woman was given HIV-infected blood is heartbreaking (“State govt. to give ‘high quality’ treatment to HIV-infected woman”, Dec. 27). If a government hospital is so callous, I would go as far as to say that this points to a total absence of governance in Tamil Nadu. The government is busy with its damage-control exercise, but its responsibility does not end with terminating the services of three employees of the hospital. The woman must be properly compensated. The Health Minister should step down just as Lal Bahadur Shastri did after a rail accident in 1956. But expecting politicians today to step down on moral grounds is perhaps a tall order.', 'The incident raises doubts about whether we can trust hospitals to even carry out simple blood transfusions. Merely sacking the staff is not enough. Were protocols followed? Do we need to test blood samples more often than currently required? These and more questions need to be asked. This is a very costly lapse by the authorities. State-run hospitals need to do more to win the trust of the public.', 'The people of Tamil Nadu are aware that the ruling AIADMK is ineffective, as was seen in the killing of protesters by the police in Thoothukudi (“AIADMK-BJP electoral alliance in the offing?”, Dec. 27). The people of the State are also angry with the BJP for the NEET fiasco, the Mekedatu dam issue, for allegedly not sanctioning funds in the wake of disasters like Cyclone Gaja, and the inhuman treatment of protesting Tamil Nadu farmers in Delhi. If these two parties ally, they will only face defeat. Not even Rajnikanth can save the BJP.', 'The rich and elite seem to have a passion for killing wildlife (“Golfer Jyoti Randhawa held on poaching charge”, Dec. 27). This can only be stopped if we implement laws rigorously. I hope this will start with the Randhawa case, but given how the blackbuck poaching case was handled, one doesn’t have much hope.', 'With Asia Bibi celebrating Christmas in hiding, and watchdog Open Doors listing Pakistan as among the world’s worst persecutors of Christians, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s statement on minorities shows his lack of political acumen (“Imran’s distorted logic’’, December 27). Unless the Janus-faced country stops being so intolerant towards its minorities, it can never maintain cordial relations with any nation.', 'Imran Khan’s tweet is baffling. Forget Christians and Hindus, even Ahmadis and Shias are persecuted in Pakistan, an ‘Islamic Republic’. Even hypocrisy and whataboutery have their limits.', 'If Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray really meant what he said about the Prime Minister, the party should withdraw from the NDA alliance (“Uddhav’s jibe at PM leaves RSS fuming”, Dec. 27). And if he did not mean it, he should express remorse. The Shiv Sena cannot have its cake and eat it too.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Kamal Haasan outlines his party’s main goals
['Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan released a broad outline of his party goals at a public meeting here on Sunday.', 'The goals include ensuring people’s welfare, reclaiming the dignity of Tamil politics, removing casteism and irregularities in government machinery, promoting secularism, aiming for international standards in education, improving water availability and preserving the land, among others. He said his party’s ideology would be released soon. Mr. Haasan said some people ridiculed the idea that the party would crowd-source its funds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Three arrested for triggering forest fire at Yercaud foothills
['Raging inferno: Forest fire spreading across Yercaud hills on Saturday.', 'Three persons have been arrested for causing forest fire at the foothills of Yercaud near Karungali village here on Saturday.', 'District Collector Rohini R. Bhajibhakare said the trio — V. Prasad of Pappireddipatti, M. Vinodkumar of Omalur and Anbazhagan from Kannankurichi — had been remanded by the forest department for consuming liquor and causing the fire.', 'The fire which broke out broke out in a dry bamboo forest on Saturday evening was controlled by night, but it intensified again on Sunday afternoon.', 'Since the blaze started spreading towards the 40-ft bridge on the Yercaud Ghat Road, bus services from Salem to Yercaud were suspended and traffic from Yercaud to Salem was diverted via Kuppanur Ghat road. District Forest Officer A. Periasamy said, “The forest fire broke out around 4 p.m. Over 50 families residing at Karungali village were shifted to a government school in Vinayagampatti here.” A senior fire and rescue department official said, “As many as six fire engines and Vajra vehicles were used.', 'The outer areas of Karungali village and Karuvampatti Zoological Park were wetted to prevent the fire from spreading.” Ms. Bhajibhakare visited the affected areas and families.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Edappadi launches PM’s cash transfer scheme for farmers
['Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday launched the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) in Tamil Nadu, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the scheme in Uttar Pradesh.', 'Mr. Palaniswami handed over the first instalment of ₹2,000 to a few farmers at Kalaivanar Arangam to launch the scheme, in the presence of Union Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal.', 'The CM said that within half an hour of the PM launching the scheme, a farmer from Theni had already received the first instalment. Snapshots of farmers having received the amount in their bank accounts were shared on social media in the afternoon.', 'Mr. Palaniswami said the details of about 22 lakh farmers who will benefit from the scheme had been shared with the Centre so far. “This scheme is a welcome step and is a boon to the farmers of the State,” he said, and detailed a number of steps taken or proposed to be taken by the State government for the farmers.', 'Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said it was welcome that the scheme was 100% funded by the Centre, not placing any portion of the financial burden on the States. “This is a welcome and refreshing approach and should be adopted for more schemes of national importance,” he said. Full Central funding will also ensure that the State governments can then use their funds to extend similar benefits to other segments of the poor, including agricultural labourers, rural artisans and urban unorganised labourers — precisely what Tamil Nadu had done, he said.', 'Mr. Goyal said, “This scheme is not a favour we are doing to the farmers. It’s a mark of respect the people of India are giving to our brothers and sisters, the farmers, who are giving us foodgrains and making India self-sufficient.” He said the scheme would benefit over 60 lakh farmers in Tamil Nadu.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘No community gives its full support to a particular party’
['DINDIGUL: 04/10/2018: K. Balakrishnan, State Secretary, CPI(M), addressing press in Dindigul, Tamil Nadu, on Thursday. PHOTO: G. Karthikeyan.', 'It appears that the DMK’s seat-sharing negotiations with allies other than the Congress and the IUML have not progressed beyond the initial talks….', 'We have had the first round of talks and will be in a position to finalise seats in the next round. The DMK wanted to hold talks with all its [potential] partners before signing the agreement. We do not have any problems since the DMK leaders were amenable and forthcoming during the talks. Of course, there is an expectation that the talks should be completed as early as possible so that we can prepare ourselves for the election. In a day or two, we will complete the process.', 'The AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance looks like a mega alliance when compared to your front. What’s your take on this?', 'They will make such claims. But you must realise that the AIADMK is not as strong as it was under [former CM] Jayalalithaa’s leadership. It has lost the people’s trust. If the alliance is as strong as is claimed by the ruling party, why did it [AIADMK government] fail to conduct elections to the local bodies and the bypolls to the 21 [vacant] Assembly constituencies? They are afraid of facing the people. The image of the AIADMK took a beating in the wake of internal squabbling — first, the tussle between Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, and later, the expulsion of T.T.V. Dhinakaran and the launch of a new party under his leadership. He will certainly make a dent in the vote bank of the AIADMK. The ruling party’s ally, the BJP, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have earned a reputation as “anti-Tamils”. In 2014, there was a wave in favour of Mr. Modi because of the people’s antipathy towards the two tenures of the Congress-led UPA government. But the situation has changed now. Since 1947, no political party or Prime Minister has felt the heat of the people’s anger as much as the BJP and Mr. Modi [are now facing] in T.N.', 'Would the PMK’s entry give a boost to the AIADMK alliance?', 'You should keep in mind that not all Vanniyars are with the PMK. They also support other parties. A positive aspect of Tamil Nadu politics is that no community fully supports a single party even if it was launched to represent the community. I think not even 50% of a community will support a particular party. The PMK has won elections in the past only when it was part of an alliance. It couldn’t win when it contested alone. When Panruti S. Ramachandran was elected, it wasn’t just the PMK’s goodwill among the people that led to the victory. His charisma also played an important role.', 'How do you see the prospects of your alliance?', 'We have not formed the alliance just for the sake of polls. Parties that are now part of the DMK-Congress alliance have been working together and fighting for causes that directly affect the people of the State. Whether it was NEET or the hydrocarbon project, we waged the struggle for the people. The DMK has a solid vote bank and created a record of sorts in the last election and entered the Assembly as the main opposition party with the highest number of seats. Now, political parties that were part of the People’s Welfare Front have joined the DMK alliance, bringing their vote share with them.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


MGR memorial in Kerala to be opened on Feb. 26
['Kerala Governor P. Sathasivam will inaugurate a memorial for former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran in the late leader’s hometown of Vadavannur in Palakkad on February 26, former Chennai Mayor and Manidhaneyam Free IAS Academy founder Saidai S. Duraisamy said here on Sunday.', 'The academy had spent nearly ₹1 crore to build the memorial for the actor-turned-politician. It took up the work over a year ago following media reports that the house where MGR grew up was in a dilapidated condition and surrounded by bushes.', 'The academy contacted the family of MGR’s elder brother M.G. Chakrapani, took their permission and started renovation by building new structures while retaining the old charm.', 'The academy had also installed busts of MGR and his parents, built an anganwadi (day care centre for children), developed a ground and planned to build a library, conference room and a few other facilities so that the place would not only be a memorial but also a centre for preparing youth and women for competitive examinations and employment.', 'The memorial would have photographs of MGR, audio tapes of the 136 films in which he acted, and almost all the books that were written on him.', 'It would also showcase the initiatives the AIADMK founder took during his chief ministership.', 'Mr. Duraisamy said the objective was to make it a place of pilgrimage for MGR’s fans. He said he had invited Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his Cabinet colleagues for the inauguration and they were likely to pay a visit in the days to come.', 'Asked about the State government’s contribution to the memorial, he said the academy had fully funded it and did not want to turn it into a political issue.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Modi will find support in State, says BJP leader
['Prime Minister Narendra Modi will find support in Tamil Nadu as he is most likely to get a second term, BJP national secretary Muralidhar Rao has said.', 'Mr. Rao said the BJP-AIADMK coalition was well-placed to sweep the State in the upcoming Lok Sabha polls.', 'Mr. Rao denied that the BJP was trying to steamroll the AIADMK’s dominance in the alliance after a video surfaced of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam’s meeting with BJP president Amit Shah, where Mr. Shah was seen insisting that election programmes of the AIADMK-BJP front will be called NDA programmes going forward.', 'Such events where the Prime Minister will participate during the election campaign will be the NDA events, he said.', 'When asked if other election events where the AIADMK would be campaigning for the BJP would be called AIADMK-led events, Mr. Rao said they were part of an ‘AIADMK-led’ alliance in T.N. “BJP is not the driving party here. We have got 5 seats. It is the AIADMK which is the driving party and EPS-OPS are the natural leaders of the campaign,” he said.', 'On the possibility of the DMDK joining the alliance, he said the BJP and the AIADMK were engaged in discussions. “If they (DMDK) come, this coalition will become stronger and more robust. Regarding the maturity of the talks, (I am) not in a position to tell [anything] publicly,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Annual day held at Global Institutions
['Students should inculcate values and develop their additional skills along with their academic skills, said Forensic Science Expert, Raghu Raghavendar.', 'He was addressing the gathering of academicians and students during the annual day celebrations held at the Global Institute of Engineering and Technology, Melvisharam, near Vellore. He distributed prizes to those students who excelled in academics and to those who secured University ranks.', 'The special guest, Actor Parvathi Nayar, encouraged students to excell in all spheres.', 'The principal of engineering college, Sivakumar, and the principal of Arts and Science college, Varalakshmi, read the annual report of their respective institutions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


5,000 cloth bags given to devotees in Sripuram
['Tackling the issue: Environment Engineer T. Radhi with the students at the awareness programme held in Vellore.', 'Scores of students from various schools run by the Sree Narayani Peetam, Sripuram, were involved in creating awareness on the dangers of one-time use plastic materials.', 'The use of these materials was banned by the State government starting January 1, 2019. The students conducted a rally and distributed 5,000 cloth bags to devotees visiting the Golden Temple in Sripuram near Vellore.', 'Pamphlets containing slogans and explaining the details on the ban of plastic materials were also given to pedestrians. The awareness programme was launched by the State Department of Environment, School Education Department and the National Green Corps (NGC).', 'The Vellore District Coordinator for the NGC, S. Muralidhar, said more awareness programmes should be created on the detrimental effects of plastics.', 'He also stressed the need to strictly enforce the ban and appealed to the officials concerned to initiate necessary action against those selling plastic bags. He added that the initiative should also be taken up by the public and he sought their cooperation to protect the environment.', 'District Environment Engineer of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Vellore region, T. Radhi, listed various measures taken by the department in eradicating one-time use plastics in cooperation with the Municipal Administration and urged the people to give up the habit of seeking plastic bags at the shops.', 'Sree Narayani Vidyashram principal, K. Subramani, Sree Narayani Vidyalaya principal, S. Ramesh, School National Green Corps Co-ordinators, G. Srinivasan, and A. Salestian Das, also spoke on the occasion.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


139 VIT students get job offers
['Wipro Technologies (Wipro Turbo) made job offers to 139 students with a CTC (cost to company) of ₹6 lakh per annum from the 2018 graduating batch of the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) during the campus recruitment drive held in August 2017.', 'This was the highest number of dream offers given by a company to the students from a single institution and has found a place in the Limca Book of Records in its 2019 edition. VIT broke its own record from 2017 with 129 offers.', 'This is the eighth time that VIT is entering the pages of the Limca Book of Records for placements. The institute made its mark in 2009, 2011, 2014, 2015 (two records) and in 2016 for the highest number of IT services placements.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Get permission for banners or face action, says Collector
['District collector K.S. Kandasamy informed political parties that they must first get permission from local bodies to erect digital banners on the roadsides, as per the High Court Order.', 'In a meeting with representatives of political parties, police, representatives from town panchayats, panchayat unions and flex banner printers, he said if an illegal banner was detected, the local body would take severe action against the parties responsible for it, including the printer, who would be dealt with as a second respondent. A fine of ₹5000 and one year imprisonment would be imposed on the violators, Mr. Kandasamy added.', 'The collector also warned that flex banners erected without permissions or found flouting rules will be pulled down. If anyone stops an officer from pulling down an illegally erected flex banner, they would be fined and imprisonedhe can be imprisoned up to one year and fined ₹5,000, he added.', 'In a similar statement, Superintendent of Police, Vellore Region, K. Pravesh Kumar, issued a stern warning against putting up of illegal banners and hoardings.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Four youth booked after stand-off with police
['The Vaniyambadi Town police booked cases against four youth, who allegedly indulged in violence against policemen on duty near Periyapettai Koot Road on Saturday.', 'A retired railway staff, Radhakrishnan ,60, who was riding a two-wheeler, was killed on the spot when a lorry hit his vehicle near Periyapettai in Vaniyambadi taluk in Vellore district. People in the vicinity gathered in large numbers and confronted the police personnel conducting a vehicle check.', 'Alleging police harassment, the crowd argued with the police team that was shifting the body for a post-mortem.', 'They even damaged the lorry’s windscreens. Some members in the public alleged that the accident was a fallout of the police chasing the two-wheeler rider, which the police officials at the spot denied. Meanwhile, a youth from the crowd snatched the cellphone from Sub Inspector Ganesan. The police managed to pacify the agitated people and disperse them. The scene of the man snatching the cellphone from the police official went viral on social media.', 'A senior police official, including DSP Vaniyambadi, Murali, visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. A case was registered against Nazrulla, 26, Vasanth, 24, Niyamad, 22, and Shabbir, 23, of Periyapettai.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmers can enrol for income support scheme till Tuesday
['Minister Sevvoor S. Ramachandran and Collector K.S. Kandasamy launch the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme in Tiruvannamalai district on Sunday.', 'Farmers who wish to avail benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, the new income support scheme announced in the Union Budget, should approach the Village Administrative Officers, Tahsildars and Revenue Divisional Officers.', 'An amount of ₹6000 would be disbursed to eligible farmers in three instalments.', 'Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Sevvoor S. Ramachandran distributed the first instalment of ₹2000 to farmers under the scheme in Tiruvannamalai on Sunday.', 'In Vellore, District Revenue Officer J. Parthiban distributed the amount in a function organised at the Collectorate.', 'District Collectors of Vellore and Tiruvannamalai instructed the officials to prepare a list beforehand.', 'However, both these districts have also announced camps from Sunday to Tuesday at VAO offices to allow more farmers to enrol themselves to receive the first instalment. In a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories, the Union Agriculture Ministry drafted out guidelines for the scheme’s implementation. States have been told to prepare a database of beneficiaries — small and marginal landholder farmer families in all villages — including whether they belong to SC/ST communities, in addition to their bank account, mobile and Aadhaar details.', 'District administration have also been told to update their land records, as that would serve as the basis for determination of landholding for beneficiaries.', 'However, the secretary also said that the cut-off date for determination of ownership of land (as per land records) under the scheme was already over; the cut-off date was February 1, 2019.', 'Revenue officials said the owners of lands, which had the records changed after the cut-off date, would not be eligible under the scheme for the next five years.', 'However, transfer of ownership on account of succession would be allowed.', 'Mr. Parthiban in a note issued on Friday said that these camps would held in VAO offices in Vellore.', 'While Tiruvannamalai Collector K.S. Kandasamy said that farmers can submit their applications at the offices of VAOs, Tahsildars, RDOs and the District Collectorate.', 'He said Tiruvannamalai was one of the districts which had a large farmer population and 1,83,516 from 1,067 villages have benefited so far.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


AIADMK, BJP regimes double engines, to drive growth: Piyush Goyal
["Union Minister Piyush Goyal at the launch of 'Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi', in Chennai on Sunday.", 'Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday likened the governments led by his party at the Centre and the one steered by the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu to “double engines” that would ensure progress with double the speed.', 'Concurring with Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam’s remark that people will gain if the Centre and State worked with synergy, he said it will ensure double progress.', 'Participating in the Prime Minister’s ‘Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana’ launch in Tamil Nadu, he said, “when the Central and State governments work together as friends, you can see double progress and double speed of progress”.', 'Stating that Tamil Nadu people “are very smart”, he asked “Am I right?”, to which the audience replied “yes”.', 'The Union Minister said “[Do] you want a double engine to work for Tamil Nadu?”, to which the gathering again said yes.', 'Chief Minister K. Palaniswami hailed the scheme, saying it would benefit more than 22 lakh small farmers of Tamil Nadu and added that ₹277 crore has been set apart for it so far following the Central funding for the rollout of the first instalment of ₹2,000 to them.', 'Mr. Panneerselvam, who spoke ahead of Mr. Goyal, said that when the Central and State governments work in synergy, conceive and effectively implement well-thought-out programmes, the ultimate beneficiaries are the people.', 'The Deputy Chief Minister said the Information Technology infrastructure of the State enabled the smooth roll out of the kisan plan, a “major path-breaking scheme”.', 'Mr. Goyal dubbed the Kisan payout scheme as the largest ever plan launched since Independence, under which every small farmer would get ₹2,000 every four months.', 'Citing the Union Budget’s increased allocation of ₹1,41,000 crore for agriculture and allied sectors, he said this was nearly five times more than what it was when Congress and other earlier governments had allocated before 2014.', 'The Union Minister said the people and farmers of Tamil Nadu are “grateful” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the scheme, which would benefit 12 crore farmers all over the country and more than 60 lakh farmers in the State.', 'Mr. Goyal said district panchayat level officers would prepare a list of names that may have been left out.', 'He appealed to small farmers who did not have bank accounts and Aadhar cards to get these and register themselves with the district panchayats to get benefits from the scheme.', 'He also appealed to the beneficiaries to lodge a complaint if any wrong names got on to the list so that only the real beneficiaries received the dole.', 'Initiatives like the PM Fasal Bima Yojana have also been very beneficial for Tamil Nadu in a “big way”, he said and pointed out that even in the Kisan Credit Card plan, the borrowing ceiling was increased to ₹1,60,000 from ₹1,00,000.', 'There was no other scheme with ₹75,000 crore as allocation, he said.', 'The government was implementing the farm scientist M.S. Swaminathan panel’s recommendations and the Minimum Support Price (MSP) would be at least one-and-a-half times the cost of production for all 22 major foodgrains produced in India.', 'He said there was no shortage of fertilisers anywhere in the country.', 'On other initiatives, he said a new department for fisheries would benefit Tamil Nadu, which has a lot of fishermen.', 'They would also be able to avail of loans at 4% rate of interest like farmers, he said.', 'The loan assistance’s interest rate would be effectively 4% when the 2% interest subvention and 3% concession for timely payment was factored in, he said.', 'Mr. Goyal also inaugurated various railway projects in Chennai.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Kalakurichi MP's car topples in Salem
['Member of Parliament from Kalakurichi K. Kamaraj suffered minor injuries in an accident on the outskirts of Salem on Sunday morning.', "The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) parliamentarian was on his way to Salem to take part in former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa's birth anniversary celebrations.", "According to the police, the accident occurred around 10 a.m. The MP's car toppled after hitting a median near Minnapalai on the Attur-Salem National Highway.", 'Mr. Kamaraj, his personal assistant Mohamed Hasan, and car driver Velmurugan suffered minor injuries in the accident and they have been admitted to a private hospital nearby for treatment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


936 bulls participate in jallikattu
['Participants trying to tame a bull during the jallikattu held at Puthiragoundampalayam, near Attur, in Salem on Saturday.', 'Health Minister S. Vijayabhaskar inaugurated the jallikattu held at Puthiragoundampalayam on Saturday.', 'A total of 936 bulls and 500 tamers from various districts including Theni, Madurai, Trichy, Dindigul, Sivagangai and Dharmapuri participated in the event.', 'A few of the tamers suffered minor injuries. Prizes, including two-wheelers and refrigerators, were awarded to best tamers and bulls, which could not be tamed.', 'The Health Minister also inaugurated a dialysis unit at Attur Government Hospital on Saturday. Five dialysis units worth ₹35 lakh were inaugurated. Two of units were bought through MP funds.', 'Talking about AIIMS, Madurai, he said, “works will be completed within the stipulated time.', 'The Minister also said that a linear accelerator at a cost ₹24 crore will be installed at the Salem Government Hospital soon.', 'He added that the Chief Minister will be distributing appointment orders to 1,300 MBBS graduates on March 4.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Horse-trading charges frivolous, says AIADMK
['Responding to the complaints from two Congress legislators to the Speaker on attempts being made by the Opposition parties to lure them to their side, the AIADMK on Saturday said the charges were “frivolous” and devoid of any evidence.', 'Addressing a press conference here, party leader in the Assembly A. Anbalagan said Speaker V. Vaithilingam should provide evidence to prove the charges against the AIADMK.', 'Questioning the timing of the complaint by the Congress legislators, the AIADMK leader said the ruling party had been complaining of attempts being made to lure their MLAs for the last two-and-a-half years.', 'Mr. Vaithilingam being a senior leader and coming from a “great political lineage” should not function as a Congress worker.', 'The Congress-DMK combine had become ‘panicky’, after the AIADMK cobbled up a strong alliance in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the Lok Sabha polls, he said. “In Puducherry, Congressmen who earlier volunteered to contest are now backing out after the alliance was formed,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Residents in Pakistan’s Balakot thought earthquake jolted them from sleep
['Residents in the quake-prone Balakot town in Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday said they were woken by “loud explosions” and thought a fresh tremor must have hit the region when Indian Air Force jets pounded a large terror training camp.', 'Residents in the mountainous area town told BBC Urdu they were woken by loud explosions. Residents in several towns near Balakot reported hearing explosions early on Tuesday.', 'Mohammad Adil, a farmer in Jaba village, said he and his family were woken at about 03:00 by “a huge explosion.” He said they thought an earthquake must have hit the region.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


8-foot-long python rescued; released in forest
['Forest personnel attached to Ambasamudram Range of Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve released an 8-foot-long python, which was rescued at Kallidaikurichi on Monday, in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday.', 'According to Forester K. Murugesan, Fire and Rescue Services personnel received a call from the public on Monday evening about a python slithering around Selva Vinayagar Temple at Kallidaikurichi. Immediately, the Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and caught the reptile.', 'They handed it over to the forest personnel, who released it in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday even as a group of tourists from Chennai, who had come to Manimuthar Falls, were filming it from a distance.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Assam spurious liquor death toll mounts to 158
['The death toll in the Assam hooch tragedy rose to 158 on Tuesday while more than 300 people are still receiving treatment at hospitals in Jorhat and Golaghat districts, a health department official said.', 'A man undergoing treatment died on Tuesday at the Golaghat Civil Hospital, taking the toll in the district to 56. More than 50 people are still under care in the hospital, the official said.', 'In Jorhat district, 78 people were recorded to have died at Jorhat Medical College Hospital and another 20 were brought dead, while 260 are undergoing treatment, the official said. In Titabor sub-divisional hospital of Jorhat district, four persons had died so far, he added.', 'As many as 22 people have been arrested in connection with the hooch tragedy in Golaghat and Jorhat districts, police said.', 'Following Excise Minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s directions, the Excise department has launched a crackdown on sale and production of illicit liquor in both the districts as well as across the State to prevent recurrence of such tragedies in the future.', 'The State government has also banned the sale of ‘lali gur’ or red molasses used in production of country liquor.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sanath Jayasuriya banned for two years for breaching ICC Anti-Corruption Code
['Former Sri Lanka batsman Sanath Jayasuriya was on Tuesday banned for two years after admitting to obstruct an anti-corruption probe by tampering with evidence sought by the International Cricket Council (ICC).', 'Jayasuriya admitted breaching the anti-corruption unit (ACU) code of the global body on two separate counts.', 'Jayasuriya is a former Sri Lankan captain who was also a key member of the 1996 World Cup winning team. He later served two terms as the chairman of selectors.', 'Jayasuriya was questioned as part of the ICC’s investigation of wide-scale corruption in Sri Lankan cricket.', 'The ACU recently gave an amnesty in relation to Sri Lanka Cricket resulting in 11 players and other participants coming forward with new information.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Shifting of base camp improves water quality
['Sabarimala has started yielding positive results with the shifting of the pilgrims’ base camp to Nilackal during the just-concluded pilgrim season. At least, this is what a study conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) indicates.', 'The study report submitted to the government by PCB environmental engineer Alexander George said that the faecal coliform count in the Pampa waters had come down drastically to 56,000 per 100 ml of water on the last day of the 41-day Mandalam pilgrim season compared to its previous year’s count of 4,00,000.', 'However, the coliform count had gone up to 60,500 on the last day of the Makaravilaku pilgrim season on January 19 due to drastic depletion of the water level in the Pampa.', 'Interestingly, the faecal coliform count in the Pampa-Triveni and in the downstream of Njunangar stream was only 1,600 and 1,400 respectively on November 30, 2018. This had gone up to 42,000 and 60,500 by the last day of the pilgrim season in January.', 'According to Mr, George, denial of vehicle parking facility at Pampa-Triveni, Pampa-hilltop and Chakkupalam were positive steps leading to lesser pollution of the Pampa. The Nilackal-Pampa forest route too was comparatively clean as private vehicles were not allowed beyond Nilackal.', 'The report said that the working of the modern sewage treatment plant (STP) at the Sannidhanam was satisfactory. It also lauded the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) for properly maintaining the sewage network system.', 'Mr. George said disposal of food waste had been a problem as it attracted wild animals to the area on many occasions. Absence of biomedical waste disposal facility at the hospitals and other healthcare centres was another problem to be addressed at the earliest, he said.', 'He said capacity augmentation of the STP at Pampa to 10 mld capacity and setting up of another 10 mld STP at Nilackal had become a necessity. Mr. George said permanent toilet complexes were a better option than bio-toilets at Nilackal and Pampa to check open defecation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Excellent Phoenix rises to the occasion
['Excellent Phoenix (Dhebe up) won the Waterfalls Plate (1,400m), the feature of the races here on Tuesday (Feb. 26). The winner is the property of Mrs. S. Prema and trained by A. Malick.', 'Jackpot: ₹20,0485 (C/o on 3rd leg), Mini jackpot: 22,353 (two tkts), Treble (1): 48,767 (one tkt.), (ii): 746 (81 tkts.).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


SC posts Rafale reviews for hearing in open court
['A Rafale jet performing, during the AERO INDIA 2019 at IAF station Yelahanka, in Bengaluru.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error.', 'A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi on Tuesday posted the review petitions filed in the Rafale case against the December 14 judgment for open court hearing.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error. They want a “recall” of the verdict. The petitioners said the CAG was an independent constitutional body accountable only to the Parliament.', 'The petitions argue that the government’s claim that the CAG’s final report on Rafale would be in a redacted form was simply untrue. In fact, the government cannot dictate to the CAG what should or should not be redacted.', 'The petitioners has also questioned the judgment’s dismissal of lack of sovereign guarantee from the French government’s side as a “minor deviation”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Sensex ends 240 points lower on rising India-Pakistan tension
['The benchmark BSE Sensex on Tuesday ended 240 points lower as investor sentiment weakened after the India carried out air strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan.', 'Weak cues from global equities and selling pressure on financials and realty stocks too weighed on market mood here.', 'After cracking nearly 500 points, the 30-share Sensex pared some losses but ended 239.67 points, or 0.66%, lower at 35,973.71. It hit a low of 35,714.16 and a high of 36,172.52.', 'The gauge surged 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 44.80 points, or 0.41%, to 10,835.30 after hovering between 10,729.30 and 10,888.75.', 'Losses were more pronounced in banking, realty and PSU counters.', 'While the former may be considered reflective of the evolving broader global perspective, the latter may have limited or transient impact on the market direction, he said, adding that markets may remain quite volatile in the coming days, especially, in the light of the fast approaching general elections.', 'The Indian Air Force struck Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday in a major “preemptive” action, killing a large number of terrorists and trainers of the Pak-based terror group preparing to carry out suicide attacks in India.', 'The move came 12 days after JeM carried out the Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'Meanwhile, the rupee which depreciated 38 paise to 71.35 against the U.S. dollar in early trade, recovered partially to quote at 71.06 in late afternoon trade at the forex market, and was still trading 9 paise lower over its previous close of 70.97.', 'Among Sensex constituents, HCL Tech suffered the most by diving 2.26%, followed by HDFC shedding 2.10%.', 'Other big losers were ICICI Bank down 2.08%, Infosys 1.75%, SBI 1.44%, Vedanta 1.20%, Hero MotoCorp 1.15%, RIL 1.01% and L&T 1%.', 'Also, Bharti Airtel fell 0.88%, IndusInd Bank 0.79%, HDFC Bank 0.72%, ITC 0.65%, Kotak Bank 0.44%, ONGC 0.37%, Maruti Suzuki 0.36%, PowerGrid 0.36%, Bajaj Finance 0.27%, HUL 0.19%, M&M 0.15%, Tata Steel 0.14% and Sun Pharma 0.03%.', 'However, Bajaj Auto and Asian Paint managed to end in the green.', 'Shares of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation fell by 0.74% after NSE said Britannia Industries will replace the oil marketing company in the Nifty50 index from March 29.', 'Shares of Britannia Industries, on the other hand, gained 0.95% to ₹3,073.80 on the BSE.', 'In sectoral terms, the BSE realty index dropped 1.63%, bankex (0.75%), capital goods (0.69%), FMCG (0.47%), consumer durables (0.43%), infrastructure (0.38%), PSU (0.20%), IT (0.16%) and healthcare (0.13%).', 'However, auto index topped the gainers list by rising 0.32%, followed by oil & gas 0.18%, power 0.10%, metal 0.07%, teck 0.04% and power 0.02%.', 'The broader markets were in a somewhat mixed shape with mid-cap index falling 0.27%, while small-cap index rising 0.26%.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'DIIs sold shares worth ₹1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'Elsewhere in Asia, Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.67%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 0.61%, Japan’s Nikkei shed 0.37%, Korea’s Kospi was down 0.32% and Singapore Straits Times slipped 0.32%.', 'In European markets, Frankfurt’s DAX was down 0.49%, and Paris CAC 40 dropped 0.42% in their early session. London’s FTSE declined 0.82%.', 'The U.S. Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23% higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Cummins praises ‘fast and accurate’ Bumrah
["Jasprit Bumrah celebrates the wicket of Australia's Nathan Coulter-Nile during the first Twenty20 cricket match between India and Australia at ACA-VDCA Stadium in Visakhapatnam, on February 24, 2019.", 'In-form Australian pacer Pat Cummins on Tuesday could not help but praise another fast bowler on the top of his game - Jasprit Bumrah, saying the Indian’s pace and accuracy has made him a serious threat in all three formats.', 'Cummins has been Australia’s standout fast bowler over the last 12 months and has even made some useful contributions with the bat, including in the first T20 against India in Vizag on Sunday, when he got a crucial four and a double on the final two balls to pull off a three wicket win for his team.', 'Bumrah, on the other hand, brought back India into the game by taking two wickets in the 19th over in which he conceded just two runs. In his comeback game, he showed how invaluable he has become for India in all three formats.', 'The 25-year-old from Sydney himself has become invaluable for his team after maintaining his fitness over the past two seasons. He did well in the home Test series against India though the hosts lost before blowing away Sri Lanka.', 'He has also been involved with some tense finishes including the one in the last game. Though he doesn’t consider himself as a proper batsman yet, Cummins relishes the challenge of closing out games.', 'Talking about thriving in tense moments, Cummins said: “You play international sport because you want to be in moments where you can win a game. T20 is a great format, almost feels like every second or third, you are either in a position to win a game or the game is on the line.', 'Australia are a game away from a series win in India and if that happens, “it will be a huge result”, feels Cummins.', 'Cummins loved the bowler-friendly conditions in Vizag but is expecting more runs from the surface at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


UDF talks on seat-sharing inconclusive
['With some of the partners in the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) sticking firmly to their demand for more seats, the first round of seat-sharing talks ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha elections remained inconclusive. But Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who spoke to the press after day-long talks at the Ernakulam Guest House, said the talks were friendly and peaceful.', 'He said the Kollam seat was being given to the RSP, which will decide the candidate to contest for the seat.', 'Mr. Chennithala said that both the IUML and Kerala Congress (Mani) had demanded one more seat each. The KC(M) demand will be discussed on March 3 in Ernakulam, while the IUML demand will be addressed at the Kozhikode meeting on March 1. Mr. Ramachandran will be present at both the discussions.', 'The IUML was represented by P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP; K.P.A. Majeed and M.K. Muneer. Mr. Kunhalikutty said at the end of their meeting with the Congress leadership that Tuesday’s was only a preliminary round of discussion and the issues raised at today’s meeting would be discussed more elaborately.', 'K.M. Mani, Jose K. Mani, MP, and P. J. Joseph participated in the talks for KC(M). Johny Nelloor of Kerala Congress (Jacob) said that his party had demanded the Idukki seat. C.P. John of the CMP also participated in the discussions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Mariachi, Sahara, Sea Of Cortez, Electra, Blue Moon and Smile Stone shine
['Camila (T.S. Jodha) 1-7, 600/40. Strode out well.', 'Prevalent Force (R. Pradeep) 41.5. Pleased. Play Safe (Ashok) 46. Easy. Inky Black (S. Shareef) 41.5. Impressed.', 'Star Cracker (Rajesh B) 1-12.5, 600/42. Pleased. Blue Moon (T.S. Jodha) 1-10.5, 600/41.5. Moved attractively. Mariachi (Nazerul) 1-11, 600/40.5. A fine display. Cosmic Feeling (T.S. Jodha) 1-13.5, 600/42. Strode out well. Smile Stone (Mark), Naazaan (M. Naveen) 1-11.5, 600/41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Set To Win (Irvan) 1-16, 600/43. Moved freely.', 'Electra (T.S. Jodha), Sea Of Cortez (Nazerul) 1-26.5, 1,000/1-11, 600/41. They moved fluently. Regal Force (Ganesh) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-9, 600/44. Moved impressively. Side Winder (rb) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-10, 600/44.5. Shaped well. Sahara (Nazerul) 1-30, 1,000/1-13, 600/40.5. A pleasing display.', 'Psychic Force (R. Pradeep) 1-45, 1,200/1-29.5, 1,000/1-14.5, 600/43. In fine trim.', "Palm Reader (S. Shareef), Donna Bella (Anjar) 1-23.5, (1,200-600) 40. Former finished four lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Arazan - Star Angel) (Darshan), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Sinead Of Aglish) (Adarsh), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Inspiration) (rb) 1-21, (1,200-600) 40.5. First named impressed. Tio Rico (rb), Wonderlust (rb) 1-20.5, (1,200-600) 39.5. Former showed out. War Hero (T.S. Jodha), Dontbreaktherules (Nazerul) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 38. Former finished distance ahead. Extremelydangerous (rb), Blackhawk (P. Mani) 1-27, (1,200-600) 42. They jumped out well. Akasi (rb), Country's Jewel (Raghu) 1-25, (1,200-600) 42. They took a good jump and finished level. Southern Power (R. Ravi), Queen Regnant (Ashok) 1-26.5, (1,200-600) 43. Former finished six lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Juniper - Secret Love) (Surya), Don Dela Vega (rb) 1-25, (1,200-600) 41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Song And Dance (D. Patel), Skiathos (Nazerul) 1-32, (1,200-600) 47.5. They finished level. Fresh Start (Irvan), Louisiana (T.S. Jodha) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 40.5. Former finished three lengths ahead.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


El Comandante and Captain Courage show out
['El Comandante and Captain Courage showed out when the horses were exercised here on Tuesday (Feb. 26) morning.', 'Faldo (Jethu) 51, 600/37. Moved well. Beshiktash (Parbat) 50, 600/37. Pleased.', 'Eyes For You (Downey) 1-5, 800/52, 600/39. Moved attractively.', 'El Comandante (A.Gaikwad) 1-18, 1000/1-4, 800/51, 600/38. Maintains winning form. Captain Courage (A. Gaikwad) 1-20, 1000/1-7, 800/54, 600/41. Moved freely.', 'Bronx (B. Nikhil) 1-40, 600/43. Good. Eagleinthesky (Akshay), Smasher (Parmar) 1-39, 1200/1-24, 1000/1-9, 800/55, 600/40.5. Both were easy.', 'Sacred Roman (Kharadi) 2-3, 1600/1-49, 1400/1-35, 1200/1-21, 1000/1-7, 800/53, 600/39. Worked well.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Too many contenders for Wayanad seat
['The death of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president M.I. Shanavas, who represented the Wayanad Lok Sabha seat twice in a row, appears to have thrown up a challenge for the Congress leadership to find a suitable candidate for the upcoming general elections.', 'With too many leaders from north Kerala throwing their hat into the ring, party sources said that choosing the appropriate among them was a daunting task as Wayanad constituency was spread over Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts.', 'Even senior KPCC leaders from southern districts too are vying for nomination. A reason cited for the presence of too many contenders is that the constituency is considered to be the safest for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State.', "KPCC member N.K. Abdurahiman, 64, chairman of the Karassery Service Cooperative Bank, had already announced that the seat should be offered to the 'I' group. Though his influence in the Kozhikode rural belt and Wayanad district remains indisputable, his candidature depends on the Congress high command taking into account his age and health.", 'Many other leaders, including former KPCC president M.M. Hassan and Kozhikode District Congress Committee president T. Siddique are keen to contest the polls.', 'Malappuram DCC president V.V. Prakash and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Shanimol Usman are also eyeing for nomination. Aryadan Shoukath, son of senior Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed, is another contender.', 'Mr. Shanavas won the Wayanad seat defeating M. Rahmathulla of the Communist Party of India (CPI) by a margin of 1,53,439 votes in the 2009 elections. This was when Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, who was with the Nationalist Congress Party then, secured 99,663 votes. Despite multiple forces working against him in the 2014 elections, Mr. Shanavas managed to romp home. His margin of victory came down to 20,870 votes.', 'The electoral success of the Congress candidate depends on several factors in the traditional UDF constituency. But groupism within the party has put up an obstacle this time even as alliance partners such as the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Kerala Congress (M) are demanding additional seats.', 'The Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency consists of Mananthavady, Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery (Wayanad district); Thiruvambady (Kozhikode district), and Nilambur, Wandoor and Eranad (Malappuram district) Assembly segments.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Rumination, deliberation
['On the first four tracks, there is much rumination and deliberation on youth and the feelings that accompany young life, twisted into familiar (yet unspoiled) Bollywood metaphors about betrayal and love. While ‘Nikamma’ is undeniably upbeat, Sawhney expands his sonic palette best with acid-drenched synth and horn sections over disco beats on songs like ‘Din Raat’ and ‘Ek Nagma’.', 'Sawhney seems to use his voice as both an instrument and for lyrical prowess. He sings wistfully about love and intoxication on ‘Ek Nagma’, with a cascading synth pattern becoming the hook.', 'Get the album on lifafa.me. Peter Cat Recording Co. and Lifafa perform at Fandom at Gilly’s Redefined on March 2.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


News Analysis | Parsing Foreign Secretary's statement on Balakot air strikes
['The message clearly, say officials, is that India had carried out a “counter-terror strike” aimed at defending itself, rather than military aggression.', 'To begin with, unlike the September 2016 statement of the strikes that followed the Uri attack, where Director General of Military Operations Lt. Gen. Ranbir Singh addressed the press, this time it was India’s most senior career diplomat who made the announcement of the operations.', 'Next, Mr. Gokhale referred to the fact that the strike was pre-emptive and necessitated by the “credible intelligence” that the JeM was planning, at its training camp, more such attacks on India, where “fidayeen jihadis” were being trained. This indicates that the government did not intend the strike as just a “revenge operation”, but one carried out in self-defence, led by intelligence.', 'Significantly, while the Foreign Secretary described the location of the camp at Balakot, he gave no details of how the strike was actually carried out. “India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot. In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of Jihadis who were being trained for Fidayeen action were eliminated,” he said.', 'The omission of how the strike was carried out has led to speculation that while the target was deep inside Pakistani territory, not far from the cantonment town of Abbottabad, Indian jets may not have needed to cross too far in over the Line of Control.', 'According to military and diplomatic sources, this is the farthest Indian Air Force jets have crossed into Pakistani-held territory since 1971, but couldn’t confirm the actual distance inside Pakistan that was travelled.', 'Finally, Mr. Gokhale’s phrase “non-military pre-emptive action” aimed only at the JeM camp, not at military targets, and assiduously avoiding civilian casualties, is significant. The message that goes out is that India has done what it needed to do to defend itself, after being left with no other choice, and with no desire to engage militarily with Pakistan. The ball now, is in Pakistan’s court.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Rehabilitation homes: SC asks Chief Secys of all states to hold meeting with health ministry
['The Supreme Court on Monday directed chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories to hold a meeting in four weeks with the Union health secretary to chalk out a road map for setting up rehabilitation homes for people who have recovered from mental illness and are fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals.', 'A bench of justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta directed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to appoint a nodal officer to conduct the meeting.', 'The court, while was hearing a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, directed all the states and UTs to provide full data to the Ministry of Home Affairs on the status of mentally ill patients who are now fit to go home but are unable to do so.', 'It said that the data provided by the states must include roadmap regarding setting up for rehabilitation homes and based on it the Union ministry will prepare a report to be submitted in apex court before the next date of hearing.', 'The court warned that non compliance of the order will be treated as contempt of court and posted the matter for further hearing on May 1.', 'Mr. Bansal in his plea has said that around 10,000 persons, who are fit to be discharged, are forced to live in different mental hospitals and institutes due to social stigma.', 'On October 3, last year, the apex court had sought reports from all the states and Union Territories on the status of setting up rehabilitation homes for people with mental illness.', 'Several states and UTs have filed their response on the compliance of the Centre’s guidelines for setting up of rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness (who have been cured, or who do not need further hospitalization, or who are homeless or are not accepted by their families).', 'Mr. Bansal had earlier said that except for few, many states and UTs have not complied with the order of July 10, 2017, in which they were asked to implement the guidelines prepared by Centre within one year period.', 'States and UTs which have filed their response include Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya, Punjab, Nagaland, West Bengal, Telangana, Tripura, Delhi, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.', 'On July 10 last year, the apex court had taken on record the affidavit filed by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities of Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment by which it had highlighted the guidelines for the state governments for setting up rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness.', 'The apex court had asked the Union Ministry to circulate the guidelines to all the state governments and UTs, with a direction to implement them within one year.', 'It had also directed the state governments to comply with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and file a status report most definitely before August 1, 2018.', 'On February 14, the apex court had favoured framing of a uniform national policy to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals after being cured.', 'It had said that the issue concerned figured in the concurrent list of the Constitution and hence the Centre also has the authority to frame norms.', 'The PIL filed by Bansal has raised the issue of release of about 300 persons from various mental hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, alleging they were still languishing there despite being cured of their ailments and most of them belonged to poorer sections.', 'It has alleged that many underprivileged persons were still staying in mental hospitals despite being cured and there was no policy in place to ensure their well-being after release.', 'The plea also referred to responses received underI with regard to the release of persons living in mental hospitals in Bareilly, Varanasi and Agra in Uttar Pradesh even after being cured.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


SC transfers Kalburgi murder case to SIT probing Gauri Lankesh killing
['The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the transfer of the investigation into the murder of M.M. Kalburgi to the same Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing of journalist Gauri Lankesh.', 'A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and Vineet Saran directed the Dharwad Bench of the Karnataka High Court to monitor the SIT investigation.', 'The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'Initially, the court contemplated having the Bombay High Court monitor the Kalburgi case. The Bombay High Court is currently monitoring the murders ofactivists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. A line of argument had been raised before the Supreme Court that all four cases were inter-linked.', 'But Karnataka’s Additional Advocate General Devadutt Kamat objected, submitting that there was an SIT already probing the Lankesh case.', 'The court is hearing a petition filed by Umadevi Kalburgi for a comprehensive, fair and co-ordinated probe into the brutal deaths of her husband, Kalburgi, Lankesh, Dabholkar and Pansare.', 'The Karnataka government has always maintained that the investigation of both Kalburgi and Lankesh murders should remain in the State. Lankesh was shot dead in broad daylight in front of her Bengaluru residence on September 5, 2017. A Kendriya Sahitya Akademi awardee and anti-superstition activist, Kalburgi, was shot dead at his Bengaluru residence on August 30, 2015.', 'Umadevi believes the very same shooters behind the murders of Pansare on February 16, 2015 in Kolhapur, Maharashtra and Dr. Narendra Dabholkar on August 20, 2013 in Pune were behind her husband’s murder in 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Save the Dolphin
['When was the last time you saw one on our roads?', 'In this sequel to the previous column that suggested a Red Data List for rare machines, I tow the Sipani Dolphin into the spotlight. That’s no typo, I did key in ‘tow’. Because, the marque seems all but forgotten and abandoned. If there is a Dolphin enthusiasts club somewhere, it is most definitely functioning along the lines of secret societies that are allergic to attention. Not only that, in recent times, my paths have not crossed with individual collectors that have a Dolphin on their flaunt list.', 'Before anything else, let us first look at the background to the Dolphin story. The Maruti 800 with its front-wheel drive arrived in 1983, and the Dolphin had arrived a year earlier. For the Dolphin, it was akin to running into Novak Djokovic in the first round. With Djokovic across the net, a club-level player would find his weaknesses more exposed than ever before, and his strengths less inviting. And that is what happened in the Maruti-Dolphin story. Montana, the five-door hatchback (that is, if you count the tailgate, the Brit way), was essentially a last-ditch effort by the Bengaluru-based Sipani Automobiles Ltd to steal some of the 800’s thunder. With just one door on each of the two sides, the Dolphin had to fight a bias built into the Indian car buyers’ market. There was also the elongated Dolphin Estate, again with one door on each of the two sides. Not only these two, but the Montana could not do anything either to cause a dent in the popularity of the 800.', 'The Dolphin, the Montana and earlier the three-wheel Badal, were patterned, down to the cotter-pin, on machines from British automobile manufacturer Reliant Motor Company. Just like their British counterparts, these fibreglass-bodied cars had enough quirkiness to make themselves endearing, in a market ruled by the Maruti, the Ambassador and the Premier Padmini.', 'It takes fanboys of a vehicle to present everything about it in the best possible light. The Sipani Dolphin had one in Suresh Rau, a dentist with an ability for quick and inventive verbal humour. When he was featured in this column with his white Dolphin many, many summers ago, he defended the car’s two-door format, saying it spared parents the hassle of having to remember to engage the child locks and ensured greater safety for children parked in the rear seat.', 'Not just user recommendations, the Dolphin also had some rally-sport stats to buttress its case. In the mid 1980s, the Dolphin came to be associated with endurance rallying, as a good number of participants chose to sit behind its front windshield. The Dolphin should have counted itself lucky that the duo comprising race-rally driver Vicky Chandhok and navigator Rajiv Rai was among them.', 'In the mid-1980s, the two steered the Dolphin to many a victory in gruelling rallies, that included the Rallye d’Endurance and the South India rally. In those days, rallies in India were long-drawn and ranged over an expansive terrain. The challenge would often last ten days and take in many states across the country. So, the machines had to withstand the punishing schedule. Going by its popularity on the rally circuit of those days, the Dolphin did that very well.', 'Focussing on the issue at hand, a count of Dolphins, or any other rare vehicle for that matter, in the country, should be possible with the support of pan-India groups operating within the hobby. One of the ready examples is the Federation of Historic Vehicles of India formed in 2017. Affiliated to the Fédération Internationale des Véhicules Anciens, this group has so far organised two drives for its member-groups in two parts of the country, with the goal of introducing them to various collections of vintage vehicles. The first — FHVI Royal Classic Car Drive to Mysore — took place in September-October last. The second, a drive from Ahmedabad to Jaipur, ended last week.', 'In the future, the Federation could throw slight detours into its itineraries for the purpose of identifying rare vehicles that may have to be helped on to their wheels. Hereby, I am repeating a suggestion made in the last column.', 'Now, any efforts to have some ‘moving Dolphins’ on our roads can be supported by technical expertise from beyond our shores. In other words, from clubs formed and kept alive by owners and enthusiasts of Reliant cars, especially Reliant Kitten after which the Sipani Dolphin is modelled. Recently, I chanced upon one Reliant Motor Club that seems to have a good online presence (www.reliant.website). There are probably a few others.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gold falls ₹60 on weak global cues, muted demand
['Representational image.', 'Gold prices fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams at the bullion market on Tuesday backed by weak trend overseas amid easing demand from local jewellers at prevailing levels, according to All India Sarafa Association.', 'Silver, too, dropped by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg owing to reduced offtake by industrial units, while its coins strengthened on increased demand.', 'Traders said apart from a weak trend overseas, decline in demand from local jewellers and retailers at existing levels in domestic spot market, mainly weighed on the gold and silver prices.', 'Globally, spot gold fell 0.14% to $1,326.30 an ounce and spot silver by 0.16% to $15.93 an ounce in New York.', 'In the national capital, gold of 99.9% fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams, while gold of 99.5% shed ₹40 to ₹34,400 per 10 gram.', 'Sovereign gold, however, remained unaltered at ₹26,600 per piece of eight grams in limited deals.', 'Following gold, silver ready too moved down by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg and weekly-based delivery fell by ₹314 to ₹40,076 per kg.', 'On the other side, silver coins increased by ₹1,000 to ₹83,000 for buying and to ₹84,000 for selling of 100 pieces.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


India eye series-saving win over Australia in second T20I
['The focus remains firmly on the 50-over World Cup but India would also be desperate to ensure that a home series does not slip out of their grip when they take on Australia in the second and final T20 International here on Wednesday.', 'India are 0-1 down after an inexplicably poor batting performance led to a three-wicket loss in the opener in Visakhapatnam.', 'The below-par 126 with the bat on Sunday denied bowlers a decent shot at securing a win even though the Jasprit Bumrah-led attack did all it could to keep the home team in the game till the final over of the match.', 'India skipper Virat Kohli has already said that his squad composition for the World Cup in May-July is “more or less sorted” but has not ruled out rewarding standout performances over the course of two T20s and five ODIs.', 'Considering the captain’s current frame of mind, both KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant are likely to feature in most of the games against Australia.', 'India rested opener Shikhar Dhawan to give game time to Rahul, who grabbed the opportunity with both hands by smashing 50 off 36 balls in his comeback game.', 'He had a disastrous Test tour of Australia before he and Hardik Pandya were provisionally suspended for their comments during a TV show.', 'The ban was later revoked though they still face an inquiry.', 'With the series on the line, it remains to be seen if Dhawan is brought back into the side to open alongside Rohit Sharma or the team retains the opening combination which featured in Vizag.', 'While Bumrah showed his class after coming back from a break, the other pacer in Umesh Yadav leaked runs and was not able to defend 14 in the final over.', 'India could replace Umesh with Siddarth Kaul or bring in all-rounder Vijay Shankar to beef-up the batting department.', 'The hosts played with a long tail in Vizag and that impacted their final total following an inexplicable batting collapse from 69 for one in the ninth over.', 'Pant, a strong contender for a World Cup berth, will be itching to perform after getting out cheaply on Sunday, and so will be Dinesh Karthik, who is left with just one game to make a compelling contribution before the World Cup.', 'All eyes will once again also be on Mahendra Singh Dhoni the batsman who struggled to an unbeaten 29 off 37 balls as India managed 126 for seven in Vizag.', 'He was able to silence his critics with a solid showing in Australia and New Zealand but his rather slow innings on Sunday has got the tongues wagging again over his waning finishing abilities.', 'Debutant leg-spinner Mayank Markande (0/31 in four overs) did not pick up a wicket but bowled well according to Kohli. The 21-year-old might get another game.', 'Australia, on the other hand, will be fancying a rare series win against India in recent times, especially after losing the Test and ODI series at home to Kohli’s team.', 'They would be happy with their bowling on a slow surface in the first game but made a mess of the 127-run target after cruising at one stage.', 'Australia somehow got over the line but they know that India won’t be serving the series win on a platter and will come hard at them at the Chinnaswamy Stadium.', 'Captain Aaron Finch would love to be back among the runs and the team will be expecting another blinder from Glenn Maxwell, who hit 56 off 43 deliveries in Vizag.', 'Match starts: 7pm IST.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


‘This book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly’
['Why adoption? And why a picture book?', 'I have a question for you too!', 'Don’t you feel that alternative family situations have never been properly addressed in our popular culture, or mainstream media? In India, the lives of thousands of vulnerable children could be transformed by loving homes, yet there is virtually no coverage of adoption in kids’ books here. I wanted to open up a way for children from all family backgrounds, traditional and non-traditional, to celebrate how different kinds of families come together inseparably through love, including not only adoptive families but, for example, those with LGBTQ parents, step-siblings, or a surrogate mother. And what better way of exploring the ways of love with little ones than picture books?', 'Your text is simple but the words have been chosen with care.', 'All children’s authors would agree that writing for formative minds is a joyful but gigantic responsibility; every word must be chosen with care. But this book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly. It was brewing in my heart for a long time!', 'When: Usually at night. I often go to bed after my four year old goes to school!', 'Where: Anywhere quiet.', 'How: I jot down ideas wherever I can — my phone, my diary, a used envelope. I brainstorm my way through a rough structure in longhand, and write it on my laptop once the outline is clear. Oddly enough, I always write the first draft quickly, then agonise over making every word just right.', 'Both these books focus, in different ways, on equality and empathy, but they need to stand on their own as playful, imaginative stories that captivate a child. For instance, Mambi is a spunky monkey who wants to fly and swim like her ‘cooler’ jungle mates, but discovers that she has her own special gifts that help save her friends. Mambi sparks off discussions about how all of us are equal, with unique abilities and interests that we must embrace. I’m glad that Mambi has been so loved by kids (including children with special needs, whose experiences are insufficiently represented in children’s books).', 'What do you look for when picking up a children’s book?', 'I love books that are wildly inventive, that transport you to new worlds even as they make you understand your known world better. Books which, without being didactic, encourage children to think critically and creatively, and promote a kinder, more inclusive view of our world. Wicked humour is always a plus!', 'Tell us about the books you enjoyed reading as a child. Which children’s writers do you love now?', 'Any more books in the pipeline? Will these be picture books?', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Willy Wonka on wheels
['Think toy cars and the name that comes to most people’s minds is Hot Wheels — the toy car line introduced by Mattel back in 1968, which is still going strong today. They started out as just toys, and of course still are, but you will even find collector clubs, speciality retail stores, and even restoration services dedicated to these tiny models.', 'As with all things collectable, some of these cars are very valuable. Reportedly, the highest amount paid for one, a pink VW bus (Beach Bomb), stands at over ₹50 lakh! And here’s a fun fact: Hot Wheels is technically the world’s largest automobile company; every year, over 200 of their models make it to production and 16.5 cars are sold every second!', 'I’ve had these cars as a child and currently have an entirely new collection. So a trip to the firm’s design studio in Los Angeles, California, is a pilgrimage of sorts — a chance to meet the men who dream up these creations, who craft desirable replicas, and who silently siphon off my money, sigh.', 'The design studio is a warehouse-like building located just across the towers housing Mattel’s global headquarters. Apart from the massive, steel Hot Wheels flame logo on the lawn outside, there’s nothing out of the ordinary about the warehouse. Walk in though and it’s like the toy store equivalent of Willy Wonka’s chocolate factory. There are toys everywhere — cars, track sets, dolls, board games, full-size mock-ups, and, of course, more cars and track sets. It’s like stepping into your childhood fantasy, or, for me, a present-day one too. Work desks are also like individual showcases, with cars, sketches and posters adorning the area; you can see their great sense of passion. And then there are the displays — Hot Wheels does build larger scales, but it’s the 1:64 scale that gets the most attention.', 'Don’t let all this playfulness fool you though. The facility has workstations, conference rooms, and pin boards, too, where serious business takes place. And in a lot of areas I’m not allowed to shoot, because of the upcoming new models and also due to Mattel’s systems and processes that they’d like to keep secret. My hosts today are Natalie from PR and Brendon Vetuskey, lead designer for Hot Wheels Cars/Red Line Club die-cast and Monster Trucks die-cast vehicles. So how does a Hot Wheels car come together? Brendon gives me the low-down.', 'You could divide the cars into two broad types — licensed replicas and the company’s own creations. The replicas stay quite true to the real thing, but are altered to look good at a small scale. For example, some lines might be toned down, exaggerated or perhaps even done away with altogether. Also, while the scale is 1:64, some are made larger or smaller; packaging and even aesthetic requirements have to be kept in mind. To begin with, sketches are made and sent to the respective manufacturers for feedback and approval, and this is something that happens all through the process. Character cars (like a superhero car) also go through this process, but there is a lot of brainstorming at the beginning to figure out what shape, style, colour and even finish would best bring out the character’s traits.', 'Quite a few of the staff here have worked as designers at auto companies previously, and so, when it comes to the Hot Wheels original designs, the designers go completely wild. They’ve done cars that resemble animals, sharks, appliances. There’s even one that looks like a western commode, porta-potty anyone? Many of these also get some kind of mechanism — like the potty’s seat flips up and down as it rolls.', 'Next in the process is the 3D model. Mattel has on-site 3D printing that allows designers a chance to quickly see their sketch in the flesh and make any alterations as required. Once approved, the design travels across the world to sites in Asia, where it is further refined for production. After that, there are a couple of pilot production phases, and among other checks, there are the rolling performance tests — remember the giant track?', 'An interesting aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that all cars need to be made up of five basic components — the body, windows, interiors, axle and wheels, and the chassis or base. And, of course, nearly all are designed for what Mattel calls a ‘drop-in assembly’, allowing the factory worker to simply drop each section into the other for a quick build.', 'And that is how you make a little car; I say little because Hot Wheels does have some life-size cars too. After the design facility tour, Brendon shows me the garage. There are a couple of real Chevy Camaros painted in the style of the Hot Wheels models and, amazingly, they’ve also built a few 1:1 models of their originals — some are drivable too! So while toys imitate real life, at Hot Wheels, real life imitates toys too.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Congress will protect the language and culture of northeast: Rahul Gandhi
['The Conress chief promises to restore ‘special status’ to Assam.', 'Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday asserted that his party will protect the culture, history and language of the northeast if voted to power.', 'Kicking off the poll campaign in Assam, Mr. Gandhi attacked the BJP and the RSS, accusing them of “burning” every state in the region.', 'Mr. Gandhi exuded confidence that the Congress will come to power at the Centre and work towards protecting the identity of the region.', 'He also promised to restore ‘special status’ to Assam and bring back the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIIPP).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


‘I don’t get attached to any car’
['It was a dream to buy a Scorpio, so I bought one. Later, I wanted to buy an Audi as Radhika, my wife, who was my girlfriend then, wanted one. She felt that the car was nice and was keen on an Audi A4. But to surprise her, I went ahead and bought her an Audi A6.', 'Cars have always been there, but, I don’t get too attached to any of them. They are just a mode of transportation for me.', 'My life on wheels has been pretty non-dramatic, unlike my profession. But cars have been an important part of my life. I often eat in my car. In fact, if you see my car, you will see it is my second home. There will be clothes, food, snacks, besides a pillow and a blanket. I also carry a medical kit in my car. There have been times when I have even slept in my car, especially during late-night shoots.', 'I also love bikes, especially the RX 100. It has been one of my favourite vehicles. I was barely in high school when I was dreaming of owning one. But my parents did not buy me one till I was in college, when they gifted me an RX 100. I had also modified it in some small ways, which only added to its appeal.', 'Sadly, my parents sold it off as they felt I was beginning to get distracted and not focussing on my studies. That was the saddest day of my life. I was so disappointed that I almost locked myself up in my room for a couple of days.', 'After that, I decided, no matter what I wanted, I would work hard, earn my own money and buy my own vehicle. Even now, my parents tease me about my reaction.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chennai’s Senate House opens its doors to the public
['It stands at the site of what was once the Nawab of Arcot’s artillery park. From its shady boulevard guns were fired to greet visitors. Today, Senate House stands a silent sentinel gazing at the Marina as students mill about its grounds, pigeons roost in its eaves and visitors throng the Chennai Photo Biennale’s exhibition held in its ornate halls.', 'Senate House was completed in 1879. The library and teaching departments were built in similar style to lend it continuity. The fragile beauty of Senate House was the result of the genius of Robert Fellowes Chisholm who as a young engineer at 21 won a contest and was chosen to design Presidency College and a building to house the offices of the University. Chisholm is also credited with designing the Lakshmi Vilas Palace and the Museum in Baroda, Lawrence school in Ooty and the Rangoon Cathedral. In a way, he changed the skyline of Madras and by the end of his tenure in India in 1902 was considered the master of Indo-Saracenic architecture.', 'The main door of Senate House faces the Centenary buildings and opens to the Great Hall (150 feet long, 60 feet wide and 50 feet high from boarded floor to ornate, canvas ceiling). It was here that convocations were once held, here that students in robes and academic caps celebrated in jubilation before the University expanded and convocations were held at the Centenary auditorium across the road. When the first Assembly was constituted in 1937, it was here that it met.', 'Light from the evening sun filters through the arcaded verandahs supported by stone capitals with Indian figurines. The red hand-pressed brick is firm to the touch and cool despite the searing heat. Broomhall’s tiles cover the roofs from where pigeons fly out to wheel over the Bay and back. Windows — shuttered, vertical and circular — covered in stained glass and woodwork lend it the solemn air of a cathedral. Mooresque colours dominate the walls and lecture halls on the floor above are accessed through grand stairways. The minarets and porches lend it a fabled feel. From the star-embossed stone porches one can see the almost-forgotten statue of Queen Victoria seated shrouded under a canopy of wild bushes. Gazing at the sea and the cars parked in front of it with its back to Senate House is the statue of S Subramania Aiyar, first Indian Vice Chancellor.', 'On the day I visit, work is in progress for the Biennale. The clickety-clack of a typewriter from the Publications office on the ground floor echoes through the hall. Workers erect installations and artists are at work. Dust dances in the sunbeams that light up the floor and lends Senate Hall a touch of fast-fading old world grace. Go before its doors close and its beauty blushes unseen.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Happy feet
['Catalan band Els Catarres has brought with them, to Chennai, their trademark happy-go-lucky style of music at the recently concluded Global Isai festival at Phoenix MarketCity, the last leg of their first Indian tour. The pop-folk band trio — comprising vocalist and frontman Èric Vergés, Jan Riera Prats on keyboard and trumpets, and Roser Cruells, on the bass — hardly ever stay still on stage; their energetic dancing, combined with fast-paced vocals and breezy guitar riffs, had the crowd dancing despite the songs being in Catalan.', 'While Èric, who writes most of the songs, is more into indie music, and Roser likes all things jazz, Jan is the one with a finger on the pulse of the mainstream. “He knows what’s popular, and what will work in a song,” he says. Jan, like Èric, started out with guitars, but then took an interest in the accordion, then the keys, and the banjo. “I know a little bit of everything. But I’m a master of none,” quips Jan.', 'Nine years ago, while playing in small Catalan bars, they never imagined they’d be doing an India tour some day. Their big break came in 2011, with ‘Jenifer’, a song they wrote as a joke, becoming an overnight hit; currently, it has 4.8 million views on YouTube. “Jenifer is this funny song about a Catalan boy who falls in love with a Spanish girl. A Romeo and Juliet type of situation,” he grins.', 'Then came the process of realigning themselves to the idea of being an official band. “We learnt a lot of things, but mainly that, one hit song doesn’t mean you’re successful.” There were constant fears of being written off as a one-hit-wonder, or ‘so last summer.’ “We have earned this space in people’s hearts, and now we had to work harder than before to keep it,” he says.', 'It was on this subject that the band took a workshop at Swarnabhoomi Academy of Music, for amateur musicians. Fame comes easy and cheap; but staying in the game, navigating your way through the marketing maze, all the while staying true to your art, is the real challenge. “What worked with us was that we weren’t very young — in our late twenties — when it happened. We had a decade of experience with not going anywhere,” he says.', 'Come November, the band will be performing with the 1983 Symphonic Orchestra in Barcelona. Only after that will they start composing for their next album. “We always take year-long breaks between albums, to make sure that our music style evolves, and remains fresh,” he signs off.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Journalism through a lens
['As we finally find a relatively quiet spot near a dilapidated sculpture on the open ground, we hear students ramble, and a popular Tamil song play in the background. Dimitri, a journalist himself, starts off with an assuring nod. And, thus we tune out.', 'Photojournalism happened by chance for this French journalist with a strong background in economy and business. At the age of 21, he realised that a career that actually “did something” is what he should and would pursue.', 'Photographs had always been a part of his childhood. “Pictures of injustice, of strong moments when humanity was hit harshly — like the defence for civil rights in USA, the Vietnam war and the impact of Hiroshima, all of the pictures of the Second World War... I grew up with these images,” says Dimitri, adding that these visual memories were permanently etched in his mind at a very young age. These pictures, in fact, led him to work on something that would make people open their eyes to what’s going on around them.', 'Straying back to the topic of photography, I ask him about his idea of the perfect photograph. “The visual power of the photograph should align with the information,” he says almost immediately, explaining that the picture should speak for itself. “That is the difference between photojournalism and documentary photography — or any other form of photography. The former should be connected to facts: facts that can be followed easily through the picture itself. For the latter, the photographer is allowed to be more personal,” says Dimitri.', 'On that note, he also admits that it is very difficult to be completely objective in this line of work. “But at the same time, the responsibility of the photographer lies in how factual he is,” he says.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Pakistan denies IAF attack, vows to respond at the time and place of its choosing
['Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would respond to India’s claims of air strikes on targets on its territory.', "A statement from Pakistan’s National Security Committee (NSC) followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'The NSC meeting was attended by Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance and Chief of the Army Staff General Bajwa, among others. Prime Minister Imran Khan has urged people of Pakistan to remain prepared for all eventualities.', 'The government of Pakistan said that they will take domestic and international media to the impact zone that was hit by Indian payloads.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on Balakot terror camp: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Modi assures country in safe hands, says he will not let country down
['In his first public address after the air strikes on terror camps in Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country is in safe hands and nothing is above the nation. The Prime Minister also said that he will not let the country down.', 'I want to assure the people that the country is in safe hands. There is nothing above the nation, he said addressing a public meeting in Churu.', 'The Prime Minister, however, did not make a direct reference to the Balakot strikes.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders. The operation, described as a non-military, preemptive strike, was welcomed by the entire political spectrum and military experts who had been advocating retribution after the February 14 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama claimed by JeM.', 'Addressing the rally, Mr. Modi said he was able to work because the party is above individuals and the country was above the party.', 'He said with the sentiment of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan’, the country was progressing ahead. Referring to the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Mr. Modi said that first installment of Rs 2000 was directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers.', 'Attacking the Congress government in the state, he said unfortunately not a single farmer from Churu was among the beneficiaries as the Rajasthan government was stopping the benefits that Centre wants to pass on to them.', 'Rajasthan has not provided list of farmers for the scheme launched by the Centre. Welfare of poor and farmers is the priority of our government but it is sad that schemes meant for them are subjected to politics, he said.', 'Mr. Modi said welfare of farmers was among the priorities of the government but it hurts when schemes related to them is subjected to politics. He said the government was working on ‘Sabka sath sabka vikas’ model.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Rockets beat Hawks 119-111; Leipzig remain on course for Champions League
['Not in the mood to go through the sports news in detail, but can’t quite get yourself to do away with it either? Here’s what we have to offer: read on to get a summary of all the main sports events.', 'Houston Rockets defeated Atlanta Hawks 119-111 on Monday but the match might be better remembered for bringing an end to James Harden’s 32-game streak with at least 30 points.', 'The streak, the second-longest in NBA history behind Wilt Chamberlain’s epic 65-game run, came to an end as Harden finished with 28 points in the match.', 'Willi Orban scored an equaliser for Leipzig in the last minute of normal time as Leipzig registered a 1-1 draw against Hoffenheim in the Bundesliga that keeps them on course for a Champions League place next season.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The Interim Budget presented on February 2 gave us a glimpse of how the government spent our money and what they plan to do in the coming year. Here are some of the highlights.']


Pakistan to raise issue of India’s ‘violation’ of LoC at UN, OIC: Report
['Joint session of Parliament to be called to take the the law makers into confidence.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, a media said Tuesday, quoting sources.', 'In a swift and precise air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders.', 'Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi will make contact to raise the issue at international forums, sources added.', 'During the meeting, it was also decided that a joint session will be called to take the Parliament into confidence.', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed the participants of the meeting on the current situation in the wake of Indian air strikes on Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday.', 'Ahead of the meeting, Mr. Qureshi chaired an emergency consultative meeting at the Foreign Office.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strike in Balakot: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


A life on the road
['In the next hour, I’ve packed two pannier-size bags, put my riding gear on, fired up the Harley-Davidson Street Glide and joined three riders on National Highway 48. The murky air clears up — as I leave Delhi’s noxious skies behind — and so does my mind: there’s never a good enough reason not to ride out of town.', 'Riding a motorcycle is all about sensory gratification. The sound of the engine, the wind buffeting the face, the satisfying clunk of the gearbox, the vibration under the seat. The best way to articulate what the H-D Street Glide — my ride for the trip — feels like, would be to amplify these inputs to superlative levels. While H-D’s new Milwaukee-Eight engine — infinitely more refined than its predecessors — takes a lot of credit for that, the weightiness of the Glide’s appeal is borne literally out of heft.', 'The largest ‘Softail’ in H-D’s line-up, the 400-kilogram Glide is the classic American cruiser, replete with a stereo, navigation software, massive windscreen, aircraft-like console, a couch for the saddle, and more chrome and leather than you’d find in a luxury car. If accoutrements, gravitas and comfort are the criteria, then the Glide is the motorcycling equivalent of the Starship Enterprise. Not one for puerile acceleration, it responds well to restraint, and a gradual build-up of momentum. And once you’ve understood how to channel that inertia, then it barrels through with the momentum of a freight train.', 'A long ride like Delhi to Goa is best done placidly. While it’s entirely possible to zip across in three days, our armada never hit warp speed. Four days, and atmospheric stops at Jaipur, Udaipur, Daman, and Pune later, I found myself riding alone on the final stretch down to the western coast.', 'At the first glimpse of the ocean, I stopped, pulled over, and wondered if there was anything else I would rather be doing at that moment. It all came together in that instant: the ride, the motorcycle and the place. Not sure about other directions, but at least this time, I knew what was in store for me, in the direction I nearly didn’t take. Jack figured it out a long time ago. I was surprised, as always, how easy the act of leaving was, and how good it felt. The world was suddenly rich with possibility.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


China calls for ‘restraint’ after India’s air strikes on terror camp in Pakistan
['New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation,” says Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson.', 'Asked to comment on India targeting terrorist camps and not Pakistani military sites, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation”.', 'China has repeatedly placed a “technical hold” on designating JeM head Masood Azhar as an international terrorist by the 1267 committee of the UN Security Council, as demanded by India and other permanent members of the UNSC.', 'He urged both sides to collaborate on fighting terrorism and jointly safeguard the security and stability of South Asia. The Chinese Minister advocated a bilateral engagement between India and Pakistan during a telephonic conversation with his Pakistani counterpart, Shah Mahmood Qureshi.', 'China is expected to further elaborate on its stance on Wednesday, when Mr. Wang meets External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on the sidelines of the foreign ministerial meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) in Wuzhen, East China.', 'The Wuzhen talks will mark the first high-level dialogue between India and China after the Pulwama attack.', 'Russia, led by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, is also expected to weigh in on the post-Pulwama situation between India and Pakistan — both recent members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), founded by Beijing and Moscow, as well as established nuclear powers.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Refrain from plunging the region into war, Pak Opposition leader Shehbaz Sharif tells India
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Honoured to bring attention to under reported issue of menstruation in ‘Period. End of Sentence’, says Netflix
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


IAF Balakot air strike: Pakistani villagers say one person wounded in attack
['Pakistani villagers in the Balakot, the area where IAF’s pre-dawn air strike operation against Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camps was held, said they heard four loud bangs in the early hours of Tuesday but reported only one person wounded by bomb shards.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders, officials said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?"]


IAF strikes in Balakot: govt convenes all-party meeting, Sushma Swaraj to brief Opposition leaders
['The government has convened an all-party meeting on Tuesday where External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj will brief the leaders of Opposition parties on the pre-dawn air strikes by Indian Air Force jets on the Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camp at Bagalkot in Pakistan, sources said.', 'The meeting had been convened at at Jawahar Bhawan, which houses the Ministry of External Affairs.', 'In the air strikes, a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders were killed, officials said.', 'At a briefing earlier in the day, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale said credible intelligence was received that the JeM was planning to carry out other suicide attacks in India after the Pulwama bombing on a CRPF convoy 12 days ago that killed 40 jawans.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Contemplation at crossroads
['The seminar on Enhancing Career Opportunities organized by ITC and Indian Musicological Society at NCPA, Mumbai raised some serious questions. Is music was all about performance and career or was it about rigour? In this world of abundant opportunities how do we preserve its sanctity?', 'In an address that was thought provoking, Sahasrabuddhe rightly tilted the balance towards the essence and philosophy of fine arts. It could have -- going by the title of the seminar -- veered towards market, economy, and tools available for the present day musician, but Sahasrabuddhe emphatically maintained that crass commercialization and unscrupulousness was detrimental to art and the artiste. Taking it forward in a similar tenor, chairperson of Sangeet Natak Academy, Shekhar Sen said that temples in the past, were centres of culture and not consolidation camps of religion and ritual, like they are today. Do we need music to live? “Not really. But if you remove culture from life, people will have shorter lifespans. It is the responsibility of the society to support and nurture an artiste, for, they are representatives of culture,” he argued.', 'In the session on “Lack of Opportunities”, the young musicians painted a different picture. While both Smit Tewari and Yashwanth Vaishnav came from unconventional backgrounds and have put up with enormous difficulty, they both felt that there are enough number of opportunities. Social media and Youtube they agreed, gave them considerable exposure, and has increased career opportunities. Both these young musicians felt that teaching was a source of steady income, however, they wondered “if everyone can become a teacher?” Adding nuance to the whole argument, vocalist Sanjeev Chimmalagi felt that while youtube has rendered the world a stage, it had to be used judiciously. It is a learning tool, but there’s too much of it. “Struggle is a constant to every creative artiste’s life. Today the struggle is of too much too soon. For instance, Colours TV asked me to send my students for a show. Now should I send them or not? Is it an opportunity or a diversion? These are the dangers about which one should constantly be aware,” he explained. “What is an artiste’s life without struggle? His art matures only when in struggle,” added Smit.', 'Dr. Mandavi Singh, Vice Chancellor of the Indira Sangeet Vishvavidyalay, Khairagarh University, took the audience on a journey through the programmes of the university, set up in 1956 for Performing Arts. A kathak dancer herself, she projected the earnest efforts of the university in motivating students with creative abilities.', 'Moderating the session on Teaching and Promotion of Indian Music, Pt. Vidhyadhar Vyas said that it is imperative to understand and adapt to the cultural changes of the music world. But is that really possible in the present, asked Pt. Ritwik Sanyal? “We are at cross roads and have plenty of stumbling blocks. As a community, we have to think seriously about the decisions we make.” Agreeing with the seriousness of the situation, B.B. Chatterjee of ITC, Kolkata, felt that since the associations with Indian Classical Music are spiritual, a career in music has to be seen both at the levels of Sadhana and Performance. “We also have to make a choice between constructive criticism and destructive appreciation,” he emphasized. Pt. Nayan Ghosh spoke at length about the journey of Sangeeth Mahabharathi, established by Pt. Nikhil Ghosh. “In the last 62 years, we boast off an unbroken chain of teaching, festivals, lecdems, workshops and more. We promoted meaningful music, and we have created teachers, research assistants, music journalists and event managers. We have also created musicians capable of heading archives and digitization studios. In all, we are a centre for excellence in performing arts,” he explained.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


FoodyBuddy: A virtual buddy for homely food
['Are you a homemaker and a great cook and dream of selling your food? You are looking at expanding your horizons, but don’t want to get into a regular job? Or you are a working person with some great cooking skills and want to sell what you make as a hobby? If you answer to most of these questions is a ‘yes’ then FoodyBuddy may be your answer.', 'It is a mobile App that helps you sell your food to people in your neighbourhood. “People get to consume fresh, authentic home-cooked meals, made people from various walks of life. We have home-makers, working women and even doctors, who want to explore their cooking skills,” says Anup Gopinath, who founded FoodyBuddy with Akil Sethuraman and Rachna Rao.', 'He adds food that is not normally sold is what you get through FoodyBuddy. Be it an authentic Gujarati dal dokli, Rajasthani dal bati, Andhra gattu vankaya or Karnataka’s gojju-avalakki, there are people who sell all these and more, assures Anup.', 'Quality Anup says is always good. “Sellers are never under pressure to sell a certain number of plates. We have people who cook for the joy of it and those who want to make some extra money. We have people, who cook for a family gathering and make a few extra plates that they sell through our App. Even when it comes to food delivery, the customer can either have the food delivered or the seller can request the customer, who invariably is from the neighbourhood, to pick it up from his/her place at a given time. The chefs can also announce their menu the previous day on the app,” explains Anup.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


NIA carries out raids on separatists, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in Kashmir
['The NIA on Tuesday carried out searches at the residences of nine separatist leaders in the Kashmir valley, including that of Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said.', 'Besides the Mirwaiz, the houses of JKLF’s Yasin Malik, Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s son Nayeem Geelani, Shabir Shah, Zaffar Bhat and Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai were also searched.', 'According to police officers, the NIA raids were carried out in a “illegal funding case” registered by the national agency in 2017 when it rounded up seven top separatist leaders from Kashmir.', 'The NIA officials were accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel as searches were carried out.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Food is more about emotions than looks’
['Desserts, says Arvind, are more like a luxury product. The creativity, special ingredients, and artistic dimension all go into making it a work of art.', 'Arvind also has many awards to his credit — he was awarded the World Chocolate Master 2014, represented India in “the Star of Chocolate 2016 (held in Rimini, Italy). Besides these he has participated in the “Malaysian Chocolate Master” in 2014 and says he was also one of the key persons involved in the dessert conceptualisation at Fabelle Chocolate Boutique, ITC Hotels. The crown in his chef’s cap is the Young Pastry Chef Award he received in 2013.', 'After years of working “with the best chefs across the globe”, he decided to start his own school, The Whitecaps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Music is life, all else is subsidiary
['Most often, when we think of a career, the focus is usually mostly on the livelihood, concert platform opportunities and recognition/respect dimensions. The objective of the seminar is also formulated in this stricter focus, and it is warranted. But if we reflect upon the lives of the masters of the yesteryears, I wonder whether this focus will be adequate. We have heard of a young Bhimsen Joshiji or Mallikarjun Mansur ji running away from home and then going through considerable hardship in their early career. I am certain that at their young age, they did not have any idea as to what was meant by being an illustrious concert performer, or of the various Padma and other awards that came their way in later life. It was plain and pure passion and devotion for music that drove them without even bothering about where their next meal was going to come from. If two square meals a day and a warm bed to sleep in would satisfy your livelihood requirements, then securing these should not be difficult.', 'Then your entire life is available for you to pursue your musical career. These career opportunities are multiple and the progress in your musical journey could be life-long without the worries about a career. Let me illustrate the different dimensions of a musical career starting with the examples of my three Gurus, for everyone of whom a lifelong immersion in the pursuit of music was a given.', 'My first Guru, the late Pandit Narayanrao Datar, was a music teacher all through his life. Music tuitions were his source of livelihood. He received tremendous respect and affection from all his students and their families, but he was not a concert artist, neither did he receive any accolades therefrom. I am in his eternal debt for his contribution to music in general and the foundation he laid for me.', 'My dear mother and second Guru, Manik Bhide, never wished music for a livelihood, did not have concert aspirations, and the accolades came to her only recently, much after she retired from an active life in music. Yet, she had not one but two illustrious musical careers: the first as a disciple of the late Ganasaraswati Kishori Amonkar, and the second as a Guru to me and several other disciples, who are concert artists or Gurus in their own right today.', 'My third Guru, the late Pandit Ratnakar Pai was recognised as a gifted artist from his early teens. Though he was looked up to as an upcoming concert artist, he chose not to depend on his concert performances as his source of livelihood. He preferred and retired from an accounting job from Forbes, Forbes and Campbell. Yet, his contribution to music in training his disciples and carrying forward the authentic lineage of his Gharana is immense.', 'I must have been five years of age when my lessons with Datar guruji began. I was growing up listening to regular riyaz of all elders at home, but none of them even hinted at the prospect of learning music in order to make a career out of it. We learnt music because it was good. What I did of my music taalim was left for me to decide when needed. I had started performing as a yuva kalakar right since my college days. But as is well known to many of you, I completed my conventional education doing rigorous scientific research and earning a Ph.D. in biochemistry. I even taught in the Ruia College for one year before I decided to pursue music fulltime. Even that decision was not with a definitive career as a performer in sight. It happened as part of my pursuit of music. It helped that my family was well settled and that my husband had a steady job.', 'Were there difficulties in this journey? Yes certainly. Everybody faces them and these life experiences ultimately shape the artist and her art. But I always had a supportive family and I believe that was one of the important, but unseen aspects of my musical career.', 'Are younger musicians of today better placed than when I was growing up as a young artist? I believe they are. Today’s young musicians are living in a much more liberal, open and generally healthier atmosphere.', 'They listen to each other, admire and respect each other, host each other and make collaborative contributions. Something I did not see growing up. We just had the AIR, Doordarshan and the press as media outlets but a fair amount of media time and print space for classical music. Today, there is a plethora of outlets in the electronic media, plenty of musicals therein but much less of classical music in the public media. There used to be many small music circles in different towns and cities who would host concerts, albeit with limited budgets, one hears less of them now. Instead today, social media outlets, recording studios and home recordings have multiplied, gadgets and technology have become cheaper and accessible. It is easier to record, promote, spread and sell music online now. Earlier, a recording label had to spot you and record your music. Then, you had to compete with stalwarts equivalent of your gurus for display space in music stores! Today, outside of the musical sphere, career opportunities in the overall economy have diversified significantly. If you have skills, it is easier to pursue a parallel career and your music.', 'The great Marathi literary personality, thespian, musician, film actor the late Pu. La. Deshpande once very beautifully commented on the career opportunities for artistes. “Let me tell you a secret that I discovered in life. Do get educated in the subjects and trained in the skills that provide you a livelihood. Work hard in your career and earn your living.', 'Upa-jeevika means livelihood in Marathi. Pu La had said that it is upa or subsidiary. What matters is the Jeevika. Make music your Jeevika and the rest will fall in place.', 'I have tried to follow his advice all my life and to understand the meaning of Jeevika for myself.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ayodhya title suit appeals: Supreme Court to pass order on March 5 on mediation
['A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', 'In a two-pronged approach, the Bench on Tuesday strongly pitched for the healing touch of an out-of-court settlement between the Muslim and Hindu parties through court-monitored mediation even as it simultaneously went ahead with preparations to finally hear the Ayodhya title suit appeals pending for almost nine years in the court.', 'Justice S.A. Bobde, on the Bench, said the mediation, if done, would be confidential and court-monitored. The Ayodhya dispute was "much more" than a mere property dispute. It has dragged on for decades. Mediation may result in the permanent resolution of the dispute. An effort should be made even if there is only a "one percent chance of success".', 'Eight weeks is the time given to the Muslim parties to examine the accuracy and relevance of the Uttar Pradesh government\'s official translation of thousands of pages of oral depositions and exhibits in the Ayodhya title suit appeals. Chief Justice Gogoi said a shot at mediation under Section 89 of the Civil Procedure Code would be an "effective utilisation of time" during the interregnum.', 'The CJI also expressed the hope that mediation may spell a peaceful end to the volatile dispute between two faiths over the land where the Babri Masjid once stood before it was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992.', 'The Muslim parties led by senior advocates Rajeev Dhawan and Dushyant Dave said the mediation route had been tried before, but their side was in "broad agreement" for another opportunity.', "The Uttar Pradesh government and senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, who represents deity Ram Lalla, both disagreed with the court's suggestion for a mediation. But Nirmohi Akhara, one of the Hindu organisations, said they were agreeable.", "Brushing aside the mixture of agreements and discontent expressed over the court's suggestion for mediation, the Bench made it clear in its order that Section 89 clothes the court with the power to override objections and push for a peaceful settlement of a dispute. The powers of the court under Section 89 is indeed unlimited.", 'The CJI observed in the order that a court-monitored mediation, if ordered, would be done with the "utmost confidentiality". The mediation would confront issues raised before the court in the appeals.', 'The court, however, deferred referring the dispute for mediation to March 5. "We will pass orders on Tuesday," Chief Justice Gogoi observed.', 'The hearing began with the CJI handing out and reading from a report of the Secretary General of the Supreme Court about the state of readiness of the Ayodhya title suit appeals.', 'The CJI said documents numbered 38471 pages. "If the official translations filed by the Uttar Pradesh government is acceptable to all, the case should commence hearing. Once proceedings start, there should not be any contest to the accuracy of the translations," he observed.', 'Mr. Dhawan said his clients should be given an opportunity to examine the translations of the State government.', 'But Mr. Vaidyanathan protested that Mr. Dhawan, appearing for appellant M. Siddique, was trying to delay hearing of the appeals.', 'He said several orders had been passed by the apex court as way back as in 2015, giving opportunity to Mr. Dhawan\'s side to examine the State\'s translations and report back. "For all these years, they did nothing and now they raise objections," Mr. Vaidyanathan countered Mr. Dhawan.', 'But Mr. Dhawan submitted that there may have been some "exchanges" in the past, but those necessarily did not amount to discussions on the accuracy of the translations. "That penultimate exercise has to take place," he said.', 'But Chief Justice Gogoi indicated that the court does not intend to wait indefinitely to hear the appeals. "We will not waste our time over your dispute about the authenticity of the translations," he said.', 'The court said it was necessary to reach a consensus on the authenticity of the translations so that no controversy would be raised later that would derail the proceedings in the appeals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


I don’t look that good anymore, says Arjun Rampal
['What kind of preparation did you undergo to play a pilot?', 'I didn’t have any experience of flying an aircraft. I have been inside a cockpit once. My obvious demand was to take me inside the cockpit of an airplane to understand things better. I did the flight simulation training where they use virtual reality to teach. I understood how to use the throttle, working with radars, what to press when you talk to a base and what are the different codes.', 'Like many other recent works, does it also aim to understand the mind of a defence person?', 'The main character here is not driven by nationalism or patriotism. Here is a pilot who was associated with the Air Force and some events have left unbearable imprints on his psyche. The show attempts to understand the mind of the protagonist. The focus is on the mind because as a pilot a lot depends on his mental focus. The mental disturbances, what all goes into his decision-making, has been dealt with in detail. I think more than external activities, if you try to understand the mind of the protagonist, it would help you understand what is driving him.', 'Once upon a time, there was a general perception that you are demoted if you work in television. Do you think a similar comparison exists with a web series too?', 'I don’t think that if you do some work on the OTT platforms you are being demoted, because the budgets here are comparable to cinema and sometimes much higher. Here, we are actually in competition with international platforms in which all great filmmakers from across the world are showcasing their content. The bar has definitely gone up.', 'Because of your modelling background, you were always praised for your looks and screen presence. Did you have to make efforts on acting to come out of that image trap?', 'Physical presence, that is the screen presence, is really important for an actor and it is humbling if I have that. How I look is not something of my doing. That credit goes to my parents. If someone is coming to watch me and not getting engrossed in the character, then obviously something is wrong.', 'How helpful was the deep baritone?', 'I don’t know. With time you understand how to use your voice according to the need. It is a part of the training that you do to throw or modulate voice. I don’t agree with the analogy that voice makes you a good actor. Sometimes, you are a great actor by not saying anything — pauses, gestures, expressions say a lot.', 'How has your approach to make the directors understand your process been?', 'You are also a producer now. Any learnings?', 'I have an idea about spending money on films and I know that films don’t fail but the budgets fail. So if you know how much you should spend on a kind of film, it will determine its business. And the rest is about taking chances.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


When the CIA fact-checked ‘Black Panther’ and more
['Did you know the CIA was running their own checks during the Academy Awards? Don’t worry...', 'The tweet read, “In #BlackPanther, a unique metal called #vibranium helped the fictional African nation of #Wakanda become the most technologically advanced country on the planet. #ReelvsReal #Oscars Do you think vibranium is a real metal, based upon real materials, possible future tech or total fiction?” Well, 55% of voters won out with ‘total fiction’.', 'Before you think the Central Intelligence Agency are off their rockers, they’ve been doing a series of tweets hashtagged #ReelvsReal, in which they’ve been taking polls on whether certain aspects of films or TV shows are real in the eyes of the audiences. The series, available to peruse if you head over to their Twitter account, chats about all this technology and futurism, laying out their facts. I say their facts because, let’s face it, we’ve seen enough headlines to know exactly what the CIA may be up to.', 'Got breakkie?', 'Believe it or not, but Reddit is also a place to just chat about the mundane things. Posted by u/runningeek, the simple question of what everyone had for breakfast today went almost as viral as an apocalyptic disease outbreak.', 'Observing the habits of people can make for a fascinating ethnographic study.', 'Some would raise an eyebrow at this, calling it incredibly useless and a waste of time. But what this thread, simple as it is, shows is how diverse we are plate to plate.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


12 Mirage-2000 jets hit Balakot in Pakistan: sources
['The Mirages-2000s used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance.', 'This was India’s response to the Pulwama terror attack which killed 40 paramilitary personnel. This is a departure from the earlier surgical strikes of 2016 where Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.', 'Balakot is about 50 kilometres from the LoC. It is in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan and about two hours drive from Abbottabad.', 'This image made out of Google Maps locates Balakot town in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan.', 'SPICE stands for ‘Smart, Precise Impact and Cost-Effective’ — a kit which converts a conventional bomb into a smart munition and is manufactured by Rafael of Israel. The ‘2000’ denotes a 1,000 kg bomb. The PGM enables the aircraft to fire them from standoff distances staying away from harm’s way and the munitions glide to the target once launched.', 'The IAF’s Central Air Command led the air strikes. Both the Israeli Phalcon and indigenous Netra early warning aircraft were deployed to monitor the mission, to direct the aircraft as well as keep an eye on Pakistani F-16s that might be deployed to counter them and a Heron long-range UAV was in the air for monitoring.', 'The Mirages used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance. It is not clear though how much inside the LoC did the Mirages go to release the munitions.', 'Another source said the initial Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) is that the hit was 100% and all aircraft returned safely. Further details from the assessment are awaited.', 'As India explored military options in response to the terror attack, a repeat of a ground strike was ruled out as the element of surprise was lost and there was a risk of casualties.', 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on Pakistani soil and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into Pakistani air space. Even during Kargil conflict, IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'A senior Army officer posted along the LoC said Pakistan had quickly ramped up its military deployments on their side soon after the Pulwama attack on February 14. “We cannot do a ground strike as they are ready,” he stated. However, he added that the Army was put on high alert since Pulwama anticipating escalation in ceasefire violations and cross-border firing by Pakistan Army.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pak drone shot down near Gujarat border
['Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch.', 'A Pakistani unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was on Tuesday shot down near the International Border in Kutch district of Gujarat, police sources said.', 'Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they said.', 'On hearing a loud sound around 6 am, villagers went to the spot and found the debris of the UAV, the sources said.', 'The official, however, refused to elaborate further.', 'Earlier, government sources said that in a pre-dawn strike, combat jets of Indian Air Force bombed terror camps at multiple locations across the Line of Control on the Pakistani side, 12 days after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group carried out the dastardly Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'They said the IAF’s Mirage 2000 fighter jets pounded the terror camps in Balakot, Muzaffarabad and Chakoti in the well-planned strike destroying Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps.', 'Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the operation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Apps to empower the visually-impaired
['Enter the Envision and Be My Eyes apps which promise all this and more, with a focus on diversification, privacy and inclusivity.', 'Making use of Artificial Intelligence, Envision intelligently extracts the information from images and provides an audio output.', 'Karthik Mahadevan, who co-founded the app through a thesis project, wanted minimal design to be a major component in the user experience (UX).', 'First, the duo did a lot of market research through the VI community. They soon reached a point where they could build a prototype, and when they showed it to their testers, they were met with a positive response.', 'Testing the app proved to be a very tactile experience, especially with our smartphones having fewer buttons. As the app is audio-reliant, it seemed to cancel that complication for its users.', 'For those curious about Envision, there is a 14-day free trial, followed by a monthly, six-month or annual subscription options for $5, $25 and $40 respectively. There is a lifetime subscription available for $200.', 'In 2012, Hans Jørgen Wiberg from Denmark was exploring how to use a smartphone and extend vision to visually-impaired (VI) people across the world.', 'In 2015, he launched Be My Eyes, a free mobile application which connects blind and low-vision people with sighted people to help in situations like finding expiry dates or picking favourite earrings using a video call.', 'Since then, it has been Hans’ mission to help the VI community. The idea to use a video call didn’t strike him until 2012, when he was volunteering at The Danish Association of the Blind. “That is where I learnt that blind folks often use video calls for help with day-to-day activities,” Hans shares.', 'Be My Eyes is available on iOS and Android and has been awarded a plethora of accolades, including Google Play Best Apps of 2017, in the categories Most Innovative, Best Daily Helper and Best Hidden Gem.', 'The application has a clutter-free interface, supports over 180 languages and has over 20,00,000 users, thus making it the largest online community of visually-impaired people. A new account takes just three clicks to create. As per the description on App Store, 90% of calls are answered within 30 seconds. However, it may take months before a volunteer gets a call. That’s because VI users are about one-tenth the number of volunteers, which is definitely not a bad problem to have.', 'Last year in February, Be My Eyes launched Specialised Help with Microsoft, which enables organisations to connect with blind and low-vision customers and provide them with effective customer care support. Microsoft users in Australia, Canada, the UK, Hong Kong, Ireland, India, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa and the United States can get Be My Eyes Specialised Help assistance in English.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?
["Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Over 40,000 people from 80 countries joined the IS till the fall of the ‘Caliphate’ in 2017. Only a small percentage have returned to the country from where they left.', 'The trajectories of IS foreign affiliates are diverse, according to the report.', 'Several of them were killed in Syria and Iraq; some were executed by IS from within their own ranks; detained by regional authorities; involved in detainee exchanges; repatriated to their home nations; in third-party countries; or whose status is simply unknown.', 'The percentage of women who returned to their countries of departure is minuscule (about 5%).', 'Where were they from?', 'A region-wise break-up shows that about 45% of the IS affiliates were from West Asia and North Africa. About 9% of these affiliates returned to their countries of departure. There were also a large number of them from Europe.', 'About 5,000 affiliates from Russia (including Chechnya and Dagestan) travelled to Syria/ Iraq to join the IS. Only around 8% of them have returned. The scatter plot shows the affiliates from each country as a percentage of total fighters and the percentage of affiliates who returned to their countries of departure.', 'The scatter plot below shows affiliates (as a % of total) on the vertical axis and % of returnees on the horizontal axis. You can use the dropdown to select a country.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?
["IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'He is reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale on Tuesday confirmed that India had “struck the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot", in the early hours of Tuesday.', 'He said the strikes took place on a hilltop in a forest location far from civilian areas and that the JeM camp was run by Yusuf Azhar, reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Yusuf Azhar alias Mohammad Salim was one of the men who hijacked the Indian Airline flight IC 814 to Kandahar in 1999. The JeM chief was then released by India in exchange for the IC- 814 hijacked passengers.', "In 2002, the government handed over a list of 20 fugitives to Islamabad and it had Yusuf Azhar's name.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


India has committed an aggression and Islamabad has the right to respond, says Pak. Foreign Minister
['Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Tuesday said India had committed an “aggression” by violating the Line of Control (LoC) and that Islamabad had the “right to respond”.', 'Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was chairing an “important meeting” to discuss the situation, sources in Islamabad said.', 'Mr Qureshi said, “First, they committed an aggression against Pakistan today. It is a violation of the LoC. I consider it a violation of the LoC, and Pakistan has the right to give a suitable response in self-defence,” he told reporters after an “emergency meeting” at the Foreign Office (FO).', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed Mr. Khan after the meeting.', "Senator Sherry Rehman, a leading Opposition leader of the Pakistan People's Party, said that “Indian incursion” across the LoC was strategically “ill-advised and tactically pointless. Such moves only ratchet up tensions in a region bristling with anger.", 'Pakistani media has reported that the Government of India staged a symbolic intrusion due to domestic pressure.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


VVIP chopper case: Delhi court extends judicial custody of Christian Michel by one day
['Special judge Arvind Kumar extended his custody in the case lodged by CBI.', 'Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22 last year.', 'Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Aerial strikes on JeM camp: political leaders laud IAF | Live updates
['A number of terrorists at the JeM camp in Balakot were killed, confirms Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale also said a number of terrorists were eliminated in the air strike.', 'The RSS congratulates the government and the Indian Air Force for the air strikes, saying they have translated into action the angry feelings of Indians following the Pulwama attack.', 'Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh general secretary Suresh Joshi in a statement says that these air strikes caused no harm to the Pakistani army and civilians which, he added, is tune with the “Bharatiya” (Indian) culture.', 'Chairman of People’s Conference in Kashmir Sajad Gani Lone says the air strikes will set a benchmark for deterrence and eventually end the cycle of violence.', 'Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik hails the Air Force for its pre-dawn air strikes. “I salute the Indian Air Force for having taken action to protect our country,” he says.', 'The Indian Air Force’s strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan underscores the will and resolve of a new India, says BJP president Amit Shah. He asserts that it shows that the country is safe under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s strong and decisive leadership.', 'Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy lauds the Prime Minister for the air strikes. He commends Mr. Modi for his “bold” efforts against terrorism. Mr. Modi was tasting success in rooting out terrorism, which was threatening the entire world, the Chief Minister says in a statement and congratulates him on behalf of the State people.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes. The entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces, he says.', 'Narendra Modi had given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead, he points out.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', "Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan 'welcomes' the air strikes and ’salutes’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.", 'West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hails IAF for carrying out the air strikes.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


'India struck biggest training camp of JeM' - full statement from Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale
['India carried out an operation targeting the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale confirmed on Tuesday at a press conference in New Delhi. He said that the Government of India is taking all measures to counter terrorism and Tuesday’s strike was necessary to pre-empt further terror attacks against India.', 'India conducts air-strikes: follow live updates here.', 'He emphasised that the outfit was responsible for the attack against the CRPF personnel in Pulwama and urged Pakistan to live up to its public commitment against terrorism and take further actions against JeM and other camps.', 'On 14 February 2019, a suicide terror attack was conducted by a Pak-based terrorist organization Jaish-e-Mohammad, leading to the martyrdom of 40 brave jawans of the CRPF.\xa0 JeM has been active in Pakistan for the last two decades, and is led by MASOOD AZHAR with its headquarters in Bahawalpur.', 'This organization, which is proscribed by the UN, has been responsible of a series of terrorist attacks including on the Indian Parliament in December 2001 and the Pathankot airbase in January 2016.', 'Information regarding the location of training camps in Pakistan and PoJK has been provided to Pakistan from time to time.\xa0 Pakistan, however, denies their existence.\xa0 The existence of such massive training facilities capable of training hundreds of jidhadis could not have functioned without the knowledge of Pakistan authorities.', 'India has been repeatedly urging Pakistan to take action against the JeM to prevent jihadis from being trained and armed inside Pakistan.\xa0 Pakistan has taken no concrete actions to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on its soil.', 'Credible intelligence was received that JeM was attempting another suicide terror attack in various parts of the country, and the fidayeen jihadis were being trained for this purpose.\xa0 In the face of imminent danger,\xa0 a preemptive strike became absolutely necessary.', 'In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by MAULANA YOUSUF AZHAR (alias USTAD GHOURI), the brother-in-law of MASOOD AZHAR, Chief of JeM.', 'The Government of India is firmly and resolutely committed to taking all necessary measures to fight the menace of terrorism.\xa0 Hence this non-military preemptive action was specifically targeted at the JeM camp.\xa0 The selection of the target was also conditioned by our desire to avoid civilian casualties.\xa0 The facility is located in thick forest on a hilltop far away from any civilian presence.\xa0 As the strike has taken place only a short while\xa0 ago, we are awaiting further details.', 'The Government of Pakistan had made a solemn commitment in January 2004 not to allow its soil or territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India.\xa0 We expect that Pakistan lives up to its public commitment and takes follow up actions to dismantle all JeM and other camps and hold the terrorists accountable for the actions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Iran’s foreign minister resigns as his nuclear deal teeters
['In this April 18, 2017 file photo, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif speaks to the media in Tbilisi, Georgia.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with.', 'Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif resigned without warning late Monday, offering an “apology” to the nation as the nuclear deal he negotiated with world powers is on the verge of collapse after the US withdrawal from the accord.', 'Mr. Zarif’s resignation, if accepted by Iran’s relatively moderate President Hassan Rouhani, would leave the cleric without one of his main allies in pushing the Islamic Republic toward further negotiations with the West.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with. He likely briefed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei before offering his resignation. Ayatollah Khamenei, who has final say on all state matters, previously backed the American-educated envoy through the nuclear negotiations.', 'The veteran diplomat first hinted at his resignation with a vague Instagram post in which he offered an “apology” for his “inability to continue to his service.” The post included a drawing honoring Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet Muhammad, as Iranians commemorate her birth Tuesday.', 'A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Abbas Mousavi, confirmed to the state-run IRNA news agency minutes later that Mr. Zarif had resigned but gave no reason for his departure.', 'Earlier Monday, Mr. Zarif met with members of the activist group Code Pink in Tehran, smiling as he posed for a photograph with them. However, he was not seen in images later in the day showing Syrian President Bashar Assad meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei and Mr. Rouhani. Iran has been one of Assad’s main supporters during the years-long war in Syria.', 'On Sunday, Mr. Zarif criticised Iranian hard-liners in a speech in Tehran, saying: “We cannot hide behind imperialism’s plot and blame them for our own incapability.” “Independence does not mean isolation from the world,” he said.', 'Analysts say Mr. Rouhani faces growing political pressure from hard-liners within the government as the nuclear deal unravels. Iranian presidents typically see their popularity erode during their second four-year term, but analysts say Mr. Rouhani is particularly vulnerable because of the economic crisis assailing the country’s rial currency, which has hurt ordinary Iranians and emboldened critics to openly call for his ouster.', 'Reaction to Mr. Zarif’s resignation was swift. A prominent reformist lawmaker, Mostafa Kavakebian, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Rouhani should reject Mr. Zarif’s resignation as his departure would only “make enemies of Iran’s dignity happy.” Hassan Mohammadi, a Tehran-based political analyst close to Mr. Rouhani, said he understood it was Mr. Zarif’s third time submitting his resignation in the last year.', 'The son of a wealthy family, Mr. Zarif overcame hardline objections and Western suspicions to strike the accord with world powers that saw Iran promise to limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions.', 'But the deal was later challenged by the administration of President Donald Trump, which pulled America out of the accord. In doing so, Trump also fueled doubts of Iranians still wary of U.S. interests decades after Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution. Zarif himself faced withering criticism at home after he shook hands with President Barack Obama.', 'Meanwhile, officials in the Trump administration have also been pressuring Iran through social media, with one State Department official tweeting an unflattering GIF of Mr. Zarif saying: “How do you know @JZarif is lying? His lips are moving.” Mr. Zarif (59), served as Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007, first under reformist President Mohammad Khatami and then under hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.', 'Mr. Ahmadinejad wanted him replaced, but Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei intervened to keep him in the position for another two years as Iran soon found itself an international pariah over its nuclear program. Iran insisted its atomic program was for peaceful purposes only, while the West feared it could be used to make nuclear weapons.', 'Secret backchannel talks between the United States and Iran in Oman became full-fledged negotiations over its nuclear program. During the talks, Zarif met with then-U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry more than 50 times — something that would have been unimaginable only a few years earlier.', 'Mr. Kerry and Mr. Zarif’s rapport extended beyond just the nuclear negotiations. Mr. Kerry directly reached out to his counterpart in January 2016 to help secure the release within 24 hours of 10 U.S. Navy sailors seized by Iran after they mistakenly entered Iranian territorial waters.', 'Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group and a longtime Iran watcher, described Mr. Zarif’s resignation as a “bolt from the blue” from a diplomat who had served as “the face of Iran” for years. He said that while it was still too early to determine what prompted Mr. Zarif’s resignation, it didn’t necessarily signal a major shift away from the nuclear deal.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Trump and Kim to have dinner before series of official talks
['Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory.', 'The second summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un will begin with an official greeting and a meal the night before a series of official meetings.', 'Mr. Trump is set to arrive late Tuesday in Hanoi, Vietnam, and meet on Wednesday with Vietnam’s president and prime minister ahead of seeing Mr. Kim. The North Korean leader arrived several hours before Mr. Trump.', 'Before leaving Washington, Mr. Trump downplayed expectations for big strides toward denuclearization by North Korea. He told a meeting of governors that denuclearization remains a goal and predicted that Mr. Kim’s country will gain economically.', 'Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory. Their first summit, last year in Singapore, yielded few concrete results.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Sensex cracks over 350 points; Nifty below 10,800
['A view of the BSE building in Mumbai.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The benchmark BSE Sensex fell over 350 points in early trade on Tuesday amid rising tension between India and Pakistan, weak Asian cues and selling pressure on banking, power, IT and power counters.', 'The Sensex was trading 343.20 points, or 0.95 per cent, down at 35,870.18 after touching a low of 35,842.58. The gauge rallied 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 105.45 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 10,774.65.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The allegation came amid heightened tension between India and Pakistan after the February 14 suicide attack by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror group that killed 40 CRPF soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district.', 'The laggards that dragged the key indices include Yes Bank, Hero MotoCorp, Tata Steel, Vedanta, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, SBI, RIL, M&M, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Infosys, NTPC, HDFC, Maruti Suzuki, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, L&T, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Asian Paint, ITC and ONGC, falling by up to 2.38 per cent.', 'On the other hand, TCS, HUL and Tata Motors rose up to 0.93 per cent.', 'Most of the BSE sectoral indices were trading in the red, led by banking, power, PSU, realty and IT stocks with losses up to 0.90 per cent.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'Meanwhile, DIIs sold shares worth ₹ 1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹ 2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'In the Asian region, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was down 0.49 per cent, Japan’s Nikkei fell 0.20 per cent, Taiwan shed 0.14 per cent, Korea’s Kospi shed 0.19 per cent and Singapore Straits Times was down 0.27 per cent in late morning trade Tuesday.', 'The US Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23 per cent higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chennai-Mangalore Mail derailed near Shoranur
['Two coaches of Chennai-Mangalore Superfast Mail (12601) derailed near Shoranur Railway station on Tuesday morning. The train was entering the station when it derailed.', 'The incident happened at 6.40 a.m. No one was injured in the accident. \xa0\xa0The train was detailed near the yard, where trains enter the station from the Palakkad side.', 'Two coaches adjacent to the engine, the parcel van and the first coach, were derailed. The electric posts near the railway line were damaged.', 'One parcel van next to the Locomotive and one coach attached to it came off the rails as the train was entering Road 7 of Shoranur Yard from Palakkad side at around 6.30 am.', 'The rail traffic on Shoranur-Thrissur route, which was disrupted for more than three hours, has been partially resumed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Police lathi-charge protesting differently-abled youths in Pune, celebrations over IAF air strikes, and other news in pictures
['Differently-abled youths during a protest demanding better facilities at education institutes, in Pune on Tuesday.', 'Mandar Tannu.', 'The Maharashtra police on Tuesday resorted to a lathi charge on differently-abled youths who were protesting outside the Social Welfare Dept office in Pune in support of their demands.', 'The NIA Tuesday carried out searches on separatists in the Kashmir valley, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said. The NIA sleuths accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel carried out searches at nearly nine places across the valley, which included the house of Nayeem Geelani, son of pro-Pakistan separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, they said.', 'Besides these, the houses of JKLF leader Yaseen Malik, Shabir Shah, Ashraf Sehrai and Zaffar Bhat were also raided.', "Students of different colleges celebrate after the Indian Air Force's air strike on JeM terror camp in Pakistan, in Bhopal on Tuesday.", 'Leaders, bureaucrats, ex-Armymen and students across India on Tuesday hailed the Indian Air Force (IAF) for carrying out air strikes in Pakistan.', "National Security Advisor Ajit Doval leaves after attending a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security at the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, Tuesday, Feb 26, 2019 following the IAF's air strikes in Pakistan.", 'The Cabinet Committee on Security met here Tuesday morning at the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Indian Air Force carried out air strikes in Pakistan.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were present at the meeting.', "National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other top officials of the prime minister's office and the security apparatus were present at the meeting, official sources said.", 'In a pre-dawn strike, combat jets of Indian Air Force bombed terror camps on Tuesday at multiple locations across the Line of Control in the Pakistani side, 12 days after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group carried out the dastardly Pulwama attack in Kashmir, government sources said.', 'U.S. President Donald Trump is set to land in Vietnam late Tuesday and will have meetings with the host country’s President and Prime Minister Wednesday before sitting down later with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un headed to his second meeting with North Korea’ for a private dinner.', 'The most senior Catholic cleric ever charged with child sex abuse has been convicted of molesting two choirboys moments after celebrating Mass, dealing a new blow to the Catholic hierarchy’s credibility after a year of global revelations of abuse and cover-up.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Rupee sheds 33 paise against US dollar in early trade
['The rupee on Tuesday sheds 30 paise against US dollar in early trade.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'The rupee depreciated 33 paise to 71.30 against $ in early trade on Tuesday at the forex market on fresh demand for the US currency from importers.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'On Monday, the rupee firmed up by 17 paise to close at 70.97 against $ in line with most Asian currencies amid hopes that the US and China will soon reach an agreement to settle their trade tariff issues.', 'Meanwhile, the benchmark BSE Sensex fell 349.78 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 35,863.60 in opening deals Tuesday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


America should not give aid to Pakistan until it stops harbouring terrorists: Haley
['Pakistan has a long history of harbouring terrorists and America should not give Islamabad even a dollar until it corrects its behaviour, Indian-American former US envoy to the UN Nikki Haley has said as she praised the Trump administration for wisely restricting financial assistance to the country.', 'Ms. Haley, who has founded a new policy group ‘Stand America Now’ that will focus on how to keep the US safe, strong, and prosperous, wrote in an op-ed that when the US provides aid to nations, “it is more than fair to ask what the U.S. gets in return for our generosity” but instead Pakistan routinely opposed the US position at the UN on several issues.', 'Ms. Haley, who had stepped down as the US envoy to the UN at the end of last year, has previously strongly criticised Pakistan for continuing to harbour terrorists that turn around and kill American soldiers while taking billions of dollars in foreign aid from the US.', 'In an interview to US magazine ‘The Atlantic’ in December, Ms. Haley had said the US did not need to give money to countries that wish harm to America, go behind its back and try and “stop us from doing things”.', 'Last September, the Trump administration cancelled $300 million in military aid to Islamabad for not doing enough against terror groups active on its soil. Mr. Trump had defended his administration’s decision to stop hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Pakistan, saying Islamabad does not do “a damn thing” for the US and its government helped late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden hide near its garrison city of Rawalpindi.', 'Ms. Haley’s new policy group aims to promote public policies that strengthen America’s economy, culture, and national security.', 'The group will provide information to grassroots Americans, to highlight the dangers and the opportunities they face domestically and internationally. It will advocate the policies that strengthen the US at all levels of government and in the broader media and culture.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Mexican President celebrates Oscar for Roma
["Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador gestures during his daily news conference at National Palace in Mexico City, Mexico in this file photo.", 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has congratulated the entire team of the Mexican film “Roma” for winning three Oscars.', 'The week began “with good news”, Mr. Obrador said at a press conference on Monday and hailed the film’s director, Alfonso Cuaron, Efe news reported.', 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'The Mexican President though acknowledged he was yet to see “Roma” and vowed to reach out personally to Cuaron and everyone else involved in the film, which tells the story of an indigenous domestic worker.', 'Shot in black-and-white with dialogue in Spanish and the indigenous Mixtec language, “Roma” was released by streaming service Netflix, not a traditional studio.', 'In five of the last six years, the Oscar for best director has gone to a Mexican.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Indra Nooyi joins Amazon’s Board of Directors
['PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi.', 'PepsiCo’s India-born former CEO Indra Nooyi has joined Amazon’s board of directors, the online retail giant has said.', 'Ms. Nooyi, who stepped down as CEO of Pepsico in October last year, is the second woman of colour to be added on the Amazon’s board of Directors.', 'Early this month, Starbucks executive Rosalind Brewer joined the Amazon Board.', 'Ms. Nooyi will be a member of the audit committee.', 'She was Pepsico CEO from October 2006 to October 2018, where she also served as the Chairman of its board of directors from May 2007 to February 2019.', 'She was elected to PepsiCo’s board of directors and became its President and Chief Financial Officer in 2001, and held leadership roles in finance, corporate strategy and development, and strategic planning after joining PepsiCo in 1994.', 'Ms. Nooyi has served as a director of Schlumberger Limited since April 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


AIADMK, BJP will lose for tie-up with PMK: Elangovan
['Former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president E.V.K.S. Elangovan has said that by joining hands with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-AIADMK alliance will lose the deposit in all the 40 Lok Sabha constituencies.', 'Mr. Elangovan told mediapersons here on Monday that the PMK did not fulfil its promises in the past 20 years and was using the elections for political trade. After having attacked the AIADMK, the PMK had now become it ally, but it would be of no use electorally.', 'Asked about no progress having been made so far in the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) – AIADMK alliance talks, Mr. Elangovan said the DMDK would vanish after the elections.', 'The visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah would not bring any change in the State, he said, and added that the people had accepted Congress president Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Ministerial candidate.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Special trains announced for summer season
['The Southern Railways has announced special trains in April and May to handle passenger traffic during summer season.', 'Train No.06038 Ernakulam Junction-Chennai Central special fare special train will depart from Ernakulam Junction at 7.40 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30. The train would reach Chennai Central at 9.35 a.m. on the next day.', 'The train is composed of one AC 2-tier, two AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. The train will stop at Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam and Perambur.', 'Train No. 06059 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram Central special fare special train will leave Chennai Central at 7 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30 except April 18 and May 23 and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.45 a.m. the next day.', 'Train No.06060 Thiruvananthapuram Central – Chennai Central special fare special train will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3.45 p.m on Wednesdays between April 3 and May 29 and reach Chennai Central at 9.45 a.m the next day.', 'Both the trains will have two AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Kollam, Kayankulam, Mavellikara, Chengannur, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Tiruvananthapuram Central to Chennai Central Special fare special train will stop at Perambaur also.', 'Train No.06026 Tiruchchirappalli – Ernakulam Junction special fare special train will leave Tiruchchirappalli at 2.20 p.m. on Saturdays between April 6 and May 25 except April 13 and reach Ernakulam Junction at 8.45 a.m. the next day.', 'The trains are composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Melmarvathur, Chengalpattu, Tambaram, Chennai Egmore, Arakkonam, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrissur, Aluva and Ernakulam Town.', 'Train No.06033 Chennai Central - Coimbatore special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 8.45 p.m. on Mondays between April 8 and May 27 and reach Chennai Central at 4.15 a.m the next day.', 'The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Train No.06025 Coimbatore - Tiruchchirappalli special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 9.15 p.m. Tuesdays between April 9 and May 28 and it will reach reach Tiruchchirappalli at 11.15 a.m. the next day. The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier,three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam, Perambur, Chennai Egmore, Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Melmarvathur, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur and Srirangam.', 'Advance reservations for the special trains have begun.', 'The Railway Board has approved additional stop for Chennai Central – Mangalore – Chennai Central Express at Jolarpettai.', 'According to a release, the additional stop has been approved for Train No. 12685 / 12686 on experimental basis for a period of six months, till August 23.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ICF rolls out first set of swanky steel coaches for NMR
['The Integral Coach Factory on Monday rolled out first rake of stainless steel swanky coaches for the Nilgiris Mountain Railway.', 'The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has rolled out the first set of swanky steel coaches for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) on Monday.', 'The first formation of one rake comprising four new stainless steel coaches are heading to Mettupalayam in Salem Division of Southern Railway by rail.', 'The coaches that are used in the NMR now are more than four decades old and have been refurbished time and again. For the first time, the ICF took up the task of designing and developing new age steel-bodied coaches for the NMR. In all, 15 coaches are planned to be manufactured by ICF. Of these, 12 coaches will make three rakes each comprising of one first class, two second class seater and one luggage-cum-passenger car formation. The remaining three coaches will be spare coaches.', 'Replacing the old small windows, these new coaches have large windows for a panoramic view of the valley and meter gauge bogies with rack-pinion arrangement in leading axle having a total seating capacity of 146.', 'The first class has 32 seats, two second class - 44 seats each, second class luggage van (SLR) - 26 seats with a separate space for persons with disabilities to place their wheel chairs and sit. The coaches also have LED lights for use when the train passes through tunnels, hand brakes for pinion and also for wheels, covered space for brake man in every coach, inter vehicle coupler for driver-guard-brake man communication in the form of a microphone-cum-speaker at each cabin.', 'The remaining 11 coaches will be rolled out in a phased manner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Indian student dies in pool incident in Rhode Island University
['The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'In a tragic incident, a student from India died at a campus pool in the University of Rhode Island (URI) in the US. Suhail Habeeb, a graduate student in physics from India, died on Sunday following an incident that occurred in a Tootell Physical Education Center pool on the Kingston Campus, the University said.', 'The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'Staff from Campus Recreation, URI Police Department, and URI Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responded to Tootell late afternoon on Sunday. URI Police and EMS were dispatched and arriving units found lifeguards performing CPR on Habeeb. He was transported by EMS to a local hospital where he was later identified and pronounced deceased.', 'The University extended its deepest condolences to Habeeb’s family, friends and colleagues.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Live | IAF strikes on JeM camp in Balakot: residents thought a quake hit the region
['Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing an election rally at Churu in Rajasthan.', 'India on Tuesday briefed envoys of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council about the IAF’s “non-military pre-emptive action” on the biggest training camp of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, which had claimed responsibility for the Pulwama terror attack.', 'Sources said Foreign Secretary Vijay K. Gokhale and secretaries in the External Affairs Ministry briefed foreign envoys, including those of the five permanent members (P-5) of the United Nations Security Council — the US, Britain, France, Russia and China.', 'Gokhale had met around 25 envoys, including those from P-5 nations, a day after the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed.', 'Residents in the quake-prone Balakot town in Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday said they were woken by “loud explosions” and thought a fresh tremor must have hit the region when Indian Air Force jets pounded a large terror training camp.', 'Balakot town in Pakistan’s north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province was destroyed during the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and was rebuilt with assistance from Saudi Arabia.', 'He said they thought an earthquake must have hit the region.', 'The Election commission of India held a press conference in Mumbai after a review of the election preparedness in Maharashtra. Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa says the Commission was keeping a watch on the developments on the border.', "Tuesday's air strikes was a departure from the surgical strikes of 2016 where the Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.", 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on the Pakistani soil and the PoK and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into the Pakistani air space. Even during the Kargil conflict, the IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'Yousuf Azhar, who headed the Balakot-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror camp destroyed by Indian fighter jets in the pre-dawn strikes, is wanted by the CBI in the IC-814 hijacking case with a pending Interpol red corner notice against him since 2000, according to officials.', 'The red corner notice was issued on the request of the CBI against seven accused in the hijacking of the Indian Airlines plane from Kathmandu to Kandahar in southern Afghanistan on December 24, 1999 — Yousuf Azhar, Ibrahim Athar, Sunny Ahmed Qazi, Zahoor Ibrahim, Shahid Akhter, Sayed Shakir and Abdul Rauf, they said.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale, while briefing the media in the morning on the “intelligence-led operation” on the Pakistan-based terror group’s biggest training camp in Balakot, said the facility was headed by Yousuf Azhar alias Ustad Ghouri.', 'Brother-in-law of Jaish chief Masood Azhar, Yousuf Azhar with red corner notice number A-565/6-2000 and Rauf with notice number A-566/6-2000 are key conspirators in the Kandahar plane hijack case.', "Pakistan says it will respond to India’s claims of strikes on targets on its territory. A statement from the National Security Committee followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'Forum strongly rejected Indian claim of targeting an alleged terrorist camp near Balakot and the claim of heavy casualties. Once again Indian government has resorted to a self serving, reckless and fictitious claim.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, says a media report, quoting sources.', 'The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan and attended by the top civil and military leadership, including Army chief General Qamar Jawed Bajwa, reports Geo TV.', 'Earlier in the day, a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was held at Mr. Modi’s residence. The meeting was attended by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and other top government officials.', "The pre-dawn air strikes by the Air Force's Mirage fighter jets was on a JeM training camp located in Balakot inside Pakistan and not the one in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), a senior IAF source said.", 'Balakot, about 40-50 km from the LoC, is situated in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is about two hours’ drive from Abbottabad.', 'The JeM camp was situated on the Kunhar river. "The camp offered possibility of aquatic training to terrorists also. The camp housed more than 200 terrorists. The trainers were ex-Army personnel," an intelligence official said.', 'Before the inception of the JeM,\xa0 the camp was used by the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, another terror outfit supported by Pakistan and active in Jammu and Kashmir.', 'Former Director of Public Affairs and Spokesperson to The National Security Council of Afghanistan, Tawab Ghorzang, in tweets, congratulates the IAF.', 'BJP MLAs were marshalled out of the Delhi Assembly for chanting pro-Modi slogans instead of hailing the Indian Air Force, says Speaker Ram Niwas Goel.', 'Who is Yusuf Azhar?', 'Maulana Yusuf Azhar is one of the terrorists who reportedly headed the JeM camp, which was struck by the IAF. He is reportedly brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, JeM chief.', 'Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi says India has committed an “aggression” by violating the LoC, and Islamabad has the "right to respond".', 'Debris of the UAV are seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they say.', 'The official, however, refuses to elaborate further.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', 'Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) President Kamal Haasan welcomes the air strikes and ’saluted’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.', 'So it is Balakote in KPK. That’s a strike deep inside Pakistan & is hugely embarrassing for them. Regardless of what the other side may claim was or wasn’t hit the planes crossed over, dropped their payload & flew back completely unscathed.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale says the JeM terror camp in Balakot was destroyed. "In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by Maulana Yousuf Azhar (alias Ustad Ghouri), the brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, Chief of JeM," he says.', 'Despite many questions, Mr. Gokhale does not confirm the location of Balakot.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes, saying the entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces.', 'He says Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action against following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead.', 'The Indian Army tweets a Hindi poem, which says, “If you are docile and polite before the enemy, he may consider you as a coward, the way Kauravas treated Pandavas".', 'The poem by Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ was tweeted by Additional Director General, Public Information on its official handle.', 'Mr. Qureshi will meet Prime Minister Imran Khan after the meeting.', 'Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha says high alert has been sounded in the State.', 'The DGP asks the SPs & range IGs to remain stationed at their respective headquarters.', 'Additional deployment has also been rushed to the International Border and LoC in Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch. "Yes, the security grid has been tightened," says an official on the condition of anonymity.', 'Meanwhile, restrictions are in place in parts of Srinagar and the Internet speed dialed down.', 'Minister of State for Agriculture Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirms on Twitter that the air strikes took place.', "An image of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's tweet.", 'Major General Asif Ghafoor, Director General of Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the media wing of the Pakistan Army, tweets, saying there are no casualties and no infrastructure damage.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are present at the meeting.', 'The Congress also lauds the role of the Indian Air Force in keeping Indians safe with its consistent and determined effort.', 'Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah says he will wait for official confirmation. "Wow, if this is true this was not a small strike by any stretch of imagination but will wait for official word, should any be forthcoming," he tweets.', 'Mr. Ghafoor also tweets images that he claims to be of the site of the alleged payload drop.', 'Payload of hastily escaping Indian aircrafts fell in open.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


When will all liquor outlets be closed: HC
['The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday suo motu impleaded the Principal Secretary to the Home, Prohibition and Excise Department and the Managing Director of Tasmac as respondents in a public interest litigation petition that sought the closure of a Tasmac shop near Palliagraharam bus stop in Thanjavur.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar observed: “The ruling party gave an assurance in their party’s election manifesto that in a phased manner Tasmac shops would be closed in Tamil Nadu. However, many Tasmac shops are said to be opened in Tamil Nadu every day contrary to the assurance given by the ruling party in the poll manifesto for the elections held in 2016”.', 'Like in previous cases, the court put forth a set of queries for the State to respond. It wanted to know the number Tasmac shops set up prior to 2016, the number of outlets closed since then, shops opened after 2016 and the income earned since 2016 and when all the liquor shops would be closed down.', 'The court sought for a district-wise breakup on the data in the report.', 'It summoned the Managing Director of Tasmac asking him to inform the court on the details on March 4. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Mahendran of Thanjavur. It granted an interim injunction and adjourned the hearing to March 4.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM counters Stalin’s barb at PMK
['Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled the bronze statue of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at the AIADMK party office in Dharmapuri on Monday.', 'All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday countered Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin’s barbs at the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) for aligning with the ruling party, by questioning Mr. Stalin for the alliance with the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK).', 'At the 71st birth anniversary celebrations of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he said the AIADMK had formed a “mega alliance” and a “winning alliance”. According to him, Tamil Nadu would be safe under the “talented” leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.', 'At Harur, one of the 21 assembly constituencies where a bypoll is due, Mr. Palaniswami urged the cadres to teach a fitting lesson to the “traitors” who followed Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran.', 'Training his guns on Mr. Stalin, the Chief Minister said the DMK stood for dynastic politics and had scuttled development in the State. “Each time Karunanidhi made a trip to Delhi, it was to bargain for a post for his son, daughter and nephew,” he alleged.', 'This would be the first general elections faced by the party without Jayalalithaa and it was left to the cadres to work hard to ensure the victory of the AIADMK alliance, Mr. Palaniswami said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Erode Corpn. to establish 3.5-MW solar power plant
['With electricity charges increasing for the Erode Corporation year after year, the civic body has decided to establish a 3.5-MW solar power plant at ₹ 20.85 crore.', 'The civic body has been selected in Phase IV of the Smart Cities Mission by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India, for implementing projects worth ₹ 1,000 crore last year. Hence, to implement the projects, a special purpose vehicle, “Erode Smart City Limited”, was formed and registered under the Companies Act 2013.', 'The Corporation is utilising six high tension services from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation with a power demand of 1,745 KVA. The average power consumption from the services is around 1.20 crore kilowatt hour per annum. Since the utility charges, including lighting and pumping, are increasing, majority of the revenue share has been spent on paying electricity charges.', 'To reduce the electricity charges, the civic body has decided to install solar power plant under the smart city projects. The return on investment is around 5.5 years and the plant requires very less operation and maintenance cost when compared to other non-conventional power plants. The proposed solar power plant is to be set up under the long-term open access method.', 'Based on the availability of land and evacuation capacity, the Corporation has proposed the 3.5-MW power plant outside the Area Based Development area as there is no space available within the area of the smart city for providing ground-mounted solar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Battery-operated car for Perundurai Medical College
['The battery-operated car at the IRT Perundurai Medical College in Perundurai.', 'To serve the needs of patients visiting the IRT Perundurai Medical College, a battery-operated car was inducted into service here on Sunday.', 'Under the MLA Local Area Development Fund, Perundurai MLA Thoppu. N.D. Venkatachalam purchased a car at ₹ 8 lakh that was handed over to the college to mark the 71st birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa here. The key was handed over to Dean M. Rajendran.', 'Mr. Venkatachalam said that the medical college was one of the premier government medical institutions where hundreds of patients visited every day. Hence, the battery-operated car would help the patients move inside the hospital premises.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


41 publications of The Hindu given to 50 government school libraries
['In Krishnagiri, the initiative was partly steered under the aegis of IVDP, a Krishnagiri-based NGO, that sponsored books for 50 government higher secondary schools.', 'IVDP has sponsored books worth ₹12.5 lakh for government schools in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore.', 'Collector S. Prabhakar presided over the event, and IVDP founder Kulandai Francis took part.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gobi GH gets modern equipment
['Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan inaugurating the new facilities at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam on Monday.', 'To ensure advanced medical treatment for patients, equipment worth ₹ 1.47 crore were commissioned at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam here on Monday.', 'Also, Samsung Electronics sponsored modern digital x-ray machine (₹ 83.03 lakh), ultra sound scan machine (₹ 40.18 lakh) and refrigerator, LED television and air conditioners (₹ 1.91 lakh) to the hospital. The Minister inaugurated these machines for the public use.', 'Deputy Director (Health Services) S. Soundammal, and Chief Civil Surgeon Medical Officer P.T. Anandan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Integrated apparel manufacturing park to provide jobs to 7,000 people
['The district’s first integrated apparel manufacturing park called “Gobi Apparel Park” that is to come up at ₹ 106.58 crore at Kolapalur village at Gobichettipalayam is expected to provide jobs to 7,000 persons.', 'Under funding from the Ministry of Textiles of the Government of India and under the Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP) of the State Government, the park is being established that will have common facilities and other infrastructure to house 12 companies.', 'While the foundation was laid for establishing 11 companies, one company was inaugurated by Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, Tirupur MP V. Sathyabama, MLAs and other officials here on Monday.', 'Mr. Sengottaiyan said the park would come up on 80 acre and provide jobs directly to 7,000 people.', 'The park would be provided with all the basic amenities, effluent and sewage treatment plants, uninterrupted power supply and wider roads. Also, quality testing centre, skill development centre, and modern accommodation for 3,000 works would also be established.', 'The Minister said that children’s home, sports ground, old age home, community hall and other facilities would also be established in the park. He said that 2,500 people would be trained in the park every year and they could secure jobs anywhere in the country.', 'Mr. Karuppannan said the other 11 companies would be established soon and called upon entrepreneurs to utilise the facilities in the park.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Collector receives water award
['Union Minister Nitin Gadkari honours Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation has honoured Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan with ‘National Water Award – 2019’.', 'Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways, Shipping and Water Resources Nitin Gadkari presented the award to the Collector at the National Water Awards presentation ceremony held in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Collector won third prize in ‘rejuvenation/creation of water bodies’ category in southern region comprising Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The award carried a citation.', 'The national water award was recognition for his efforts to restore and rejuvenate several water bodies in Sivaganga district. The district administration had applied for the award only in that category and it would strive to get prizes in other categories as well in the coming years, he added.', 'The Collector won the Centre’s appreciation for rejuvenating three major ooranies — Mayana Oorani, Chetti Oorani and Teppakulam — after evicting 25 encroachments and desilting their inlet and outlet channels.', 'The Sivaganga Teppakulam, located in the centre of the district, brimmed with water after a gap of 26 years thanks to the restoration works.', 'On being diverted, water from Periyar channel reached the tank, traversing more than 35 km. Several tanks and ponds and their supply channels were also desilted in the district, according to the district officials.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Public welcome to join as FoP: Theni SP
['Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran addressing students aspiring to join as Friends of Police in Theni on Monday.', 'Welcoming the public initiative to be ‘Friends of Police’, Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said their role would be immensely useful and commendable to society.', 'Addressing a large gathering of students and residents, he said with rise in population, problems were growing everywhere. While a majority of them could be solved then and there, any neglect of the issues would lead to unwanted conflicts.', 'On such occasions, the Friends of Police (FoPs) could play a pivotal role in bringing peace instantly. A call to the police or any specific officer would be vital, Mr. Baskaran said and added that most of the problems were either petty or personal in nature.', 'As for road accidents reported in the district, the SP said rash and negligent driving, drunken driving and lack of sleep were major factors. While educational institutions and service organisations came in handy in educating road users, the government too, through Road Safety Week, disseminated about the need to follow rules.', 'Further, Mr. Baskaran said the district police had purchased gadgets such as breath-analyser, speed radar guns and planned to install more mobile barricades and put up CCTV cameras at vantage locations.', 'The FoPs were also told about their role on how to handle emergencies in the event of a road accident. Similarly, police officers from the law and order wing also shared inputs expected from FoPs. The cell phone numbers of police stations, Inspectors and DSPs were shared with the members. The FoPs were told to download the App of the emergency vehicle service operator - 108 - as it would help in identifying the location of the caller and rush the vehicle to the spot.', 'As many as 357 men and 180 women participated in the meeting. Both men and women police officers from various police stations and sub-division were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Those involved in Jayalalithaa’s death will go behind bars: Stalin
['Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin on Monday said those involved in the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa would find themselves behind bars if his party was voted to power.', 'Speaking at a gram sabha meeting at Melakootudangadu in Ottapidaram constituency, he said updates regarding the health of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi was given twice every day, while the health status of the AIADMK leader was shrouded in mystery during her hospitalisation.', 'He slammed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for not responding to allegations about his involvement in the murder of five persons in the Kodanad case. Mr. Stalin said the government had killed 13 persons in the anti-Sterlite agitation in a planned manner. The DMK had been stressing policy decision against the industry, but the government did not seem to be interested.', 'The recommendations of retired High Court judge M.S. Janarthanam would be implemented and demands of Devendra Kula Vellalar community would be fulfilled. “The current government has discarded the committee’s findings. But the DMK will pass a Government Order to fulfil their demands,” he said.', 'Women who attended the gram sabha meeting put forth a number of issues like lack of road facilities, drinking water, lack of revolving funds for self-help groups, irregular supply at fair price shops, among others.', 'Speaking about water issues, Mr. Stalin said the DMK implemented the Hogenakkal, Vellore and Ramanathapuram combined water schemes when he was the Minister of Local Administration. The schemes helped in bringing down water-borne diseases caused by consumption of contaminated drinking water.', 'A number of schemes such as old age pension and disbursement of revolving funds to SHGs, launched by fromer Chief Minister Karunanidhi, were not being implemented properly by the current regime, he added.', 'Earlier, he visited the family of Subramaniyan, the CRPF jawan who was killed in Pulwama attack, at Savalaperi, and consoled his family. He gave a compensation of ₹ 2 lakh to the family members. In the evening, he also participated a gram sabha meeting at Vembar in Vilathikulam constituency. MP Kanimozhi, former Ministers I. Periyasamy, K.N. Nehru and Anitha R. Radhakrishnan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Self-immolation bid by woman thwarted at Collectorate
['The Collectorate, which witnessed gruesome self-immolation of a usury victim and his family members 16 months ago, was about to witness a similar incident on Monday when a woman attempted to immolate herself.', 'After usury victim Eskkimuthu of Kasidharmam near Tenkasi immolated himself and his family members on the Collectorate premises in October 2017 while the Collector was receiving petitions from the public at the weekly grievance day meeting, security was beefed up on the Collecotrate premises. To ensure regularised entry of public into the Collectorate with inflammable materials, some of the entry points were closed permanently.', 'Moreover, the petitioners are frisked thoroughly before they enter the Collectorate through the main entrance to submit petitions to the Collector on Mondays. Still, citing official apathy, self-immolation bids are made by aggrieved petitioners near the main entrance.', 'On Monday, A. Rajammal, 65, of Tenkasi, who managed to bring kerosene till the District Development Council Hall, splashed it all over her body. But before she lighted the matchstick, those standing nearby thwarted the attempt and alerted the police.', 'During enquiry, the woman told the police that she had given money to a few people in Tenkasi for buying a house. “When they failed to keep the promise, I asked them to return my money. But they not only refused but also threatened me. I filed a complaint with Tenkasi police but they did not take any action. I also gave petitions to the Superintendent of Police three times and twice to the Collector. But they also did not take action. Hence, I decided to kill myself. Though public thwarted my attempt today, I’ll kill myself soon if the police do not take action against those who cheated me,” Mrs. Rajammal said. The police took the woman to Palayamkottai police station for enquiry and released her later.', 'Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling the State’s health helpline, ‘104,’ or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Repair faulty overhead tank,mitigate water crisis: villagers
['Condemning erratic water supply, a group of residents from Sivanthipuram, a village on the bank of the Tamirabharani near Ambasamudram, submitted a petition at the Collectorate here on Monday.', 'The petitioners said they were getting drinking water once in six days only though their village is situated right on the bank of the Tamirabharani and only a few km away from Papanasam dam through which the perennial river reaches the plains from the Western Ghats. An overhead tank was constructed two years ago for improving drinking water supply. But due to faulty construction, the tank could not be used as there was a profuse leakage of water during the trial stage itself. Now cracks had developed in the structure owing to extreme heat.', 'When contacted, officials said regular water supply could be ensured only after the cracks were cemented. So, the work should be expedited, the villagers said.', 'Members of Tirunelveli District Pothunala Sangam, led by Mohammed Ayub, said ceiling fans in Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School were switched off by teachers so as to minimise power consumption. As the children were put to much discomfort in the sweltering summer heat, teachers should be instructed to switch on the ceiling fans during class hours. The toilets should also be properly maintained with adequate water facility and doors, they said.', 'Members of Suthamalli Bharathi Nagar Pothunala Sangam said the railways had constructed a wall across a path used by residents for the past several decades to take bodies to a cremation ground. The district administration should hold talks with the railway administration and make efforts to ensure that they could continue to use the path.', 'A group of students of Government Law College, Tirunelveli, staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate to highlight their demands of naming Madurai airport after Immanuel Sekaran and removing Devendrakula Vellaalar from the list of Scheduled Castes.', 'Members of Thamizh Puligal, a Dalit organisation, staged a demonstration demanding retrieval of a ‘public utility land’ at Kasimajorpuram, which had been “encroached upon” by an individual.', 'After the State government announced free house sites would be given to below-poverty-line families living on government poramboke lands, a few hundred petitions were submitted on Monday seeking land for constructing house. Hundreds of petitions were also submitted seeking the State government’s special financial assistance of ₹2,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Officials start sealing illegal buildings
['Confusion and uneasy moments prevailed after municipal authorities stepped up action to seal buildings violating norms in Kodaikanal in Dindigul district on Monday.', 'Following a directive from the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, the officials informed the court that around 1,400 buildings, including commercial structures, dwellings and private clinics, violated the norms.', 'When the court fixed an action plan to clean up illegal and unauthorised construction, officials held out the assurance that they would follow the instructions and file a compliance report soon.', 'As part of the assurance, officials sealed 44 buildings and the drive was intensified with more field staff being deployed, a senior official from the district administration said.', 'As per law, the violators were served notice and, subsequently, they were sealed. “The next step will be to demolish the illegal portion of the building,” said an official.', 'Meanwhile, some of the traders and office-bearers of the hotelier association appealed to the officials to stop the action as a section of them had approached the HC bench seeking relief.', 'Not in a mood to relent, the officials at the municipal office here said they were proceeding as per norms and would file their reports with the court directly. “Any failure would mean contempt of court,” they said.', 'A large posse of police personnel were deployed with the officials.', 'Activist and NGOs, voicing for a clean and green Kodai, welcomed the move of the HC Bench. They also wanted it to order a probe against corrupt officials who were “soft” with the violators all these years. “Their ill-gotten wealth should be confiscated,” they said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Trump Org slams probe; Trump Jr. calls feds ‘Stalinist’
['President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organisation fired back at investigations into its business on Monday, demanding a House panel end its probe because of ethical conflicts.', 'Separately, President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organization said in a letter to the House Judiciary Committee that a lawyer assisting its investigation, Barry Berke, has tainted the panel’s work because he is partner at a law firm that has represented the family company for more than a quarter of a century.', 'The letter to House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler of New York demands the panel cease its investigation and hand over all his emails, text messages and other communication with the committee.', 'The U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan declined to comment. Joseph Stalin led the former Soviet Union from the mid-1920s until 1953.', 'Prosecutors are investigating, among other potential crimes, whether foreigners illegally contributed to inaugural events in 2017.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Contract labourers sacked by NTPL seek reinstatement
['Seeking solution: NTPL contract workers at the Thoothukudi Collectorate on Monday.', 'Members of Central Organisation for Electricity Employees-CITU submitted a petition at the Collectorate seeking reinstatement of contract labourers of the NLC Tamil Nadu Power Limited (NTPL), who were fired recently.', 'S. Appadurai, secretary of the association, said 40 contract employees of the NTPL were sent off recently, in violation of an order by the Regional Labour Commissioner in an industrial dispute, saying the status quo should prevail. The contract workers have not been made permanent, and are given a much lower pay despite their work being perennial in nature, he said.', 'Members of CPI(M), led by Kovilpatti party town secretary Murugan and Thoothukudi town secretary Raja, sought the widening of the Manthithoppu Road in Kovilpatti citing the problem of traffic congestion on especially narrow sections of the road. The party members also demanded that government and private buses plying between Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur should halt at Mullakadu, where about 500 passengers, including school children, used the service.', 'Around 10 transwomen submitted a petition seeking jobs at anganwadi centres. They said that they had been applying for the job over the last two years and sought their appointment this year.', 'Vinoth Kumar, district secretary of PMK, sought action against those involved in sand mining near Vaippar after getting permission for using savadu soil (fertile sediment). He said that a resident of Dindigul, who had received permission for using the soil on patta lands, was digging up to 50 ft and lifting the sand, besides mining from the riverbed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmers complain of industrial pollution
['Residents of Moppiripalayam showing samples of the contaminated water at the weekly grievances redress day meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday.', 'The Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association that is affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha on Monday urged the district administration to act against the industry that caused pollution at Moppiripalayam village in Sulur Taluk.', 'In its petition submitted at the weekly grievances day meeting on Monday, the Association said that the effluents discharged from the company into a well on its premises resulted in ground water pollution and therefore affected agriculture lands, farm wells and the cattle that were dependent on ground water.', 'It wanted to know how the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board could accord permission for running such a polluting industry, the Association asked and sought action.', 'The residents also carried samples of water taken from the area.', 'Representatives of the 50-odd residents of Sri Rayar Nagar, Siddhapudur, on Monday petitioned the district administration seeking title deeds (patta). In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day, the petitioners said they had been paying land tax for over 35 years and property tax to the Corporation since 20 years. Former MLA V.K. Lakshmanan, following his visit to the area in 1996, wrote to the district administration, for their title deeds.', 'Though the then District Collector promised to issue the title deeds, the administration could do so following a court order.', 'But, of late, a few persons posing as government officials were forcing them to vacate the houses on one pretext or the other and the petitioners said that they suspected it to be the handiwork of people who wanted to grab their land.', 'Their inquiries with the Revenue Department officials concerned revealed that there was no move to evict them from their houses.', 'When they sought a few details like land classification of the area to the officials concerned, the petitioners said they were redirected to the Coimbatore Corporation.', 'They also said that people who lived in neighbouring colonies had got title deeds from the government and therefore the district administration should take steps to give them the deeds as well.', 'Sri Lakshmi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has appealed to the district administration to give up the move to establish a Tasmac-run liquor outlet in the area The Association said the access road to the area was a 13-foot wide cart track, which was also the road for residents of Nehru Nagar, Assisi Nagar, Narayana Nagar and a few other residential colonies.', 'Members of the Coimbatore District Association for the Deaf on Monday complained to the district administration that they were not getting the monthly financial assistance of ₹ 1,000 that the State Government gave them.', 'In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day meeting on Monday, the hearing impaired people said they wanted the State Government to provide job opportunities for those hearing impaired people who had completed class eight or 10.', 'The youth wing of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has alleged mismanagement of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. In its petition to the district administration, submitted at the weekly grievance day meting on Monday, it said that the hospital administration had given the maintenance, contract for construction work, and purchase of essential items to a Ukkadam resident.', 'In awarding the works, a CMCH hospital clerk acted as an intermediary.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two murdered in separate incidents
['Biji (21), a daily wage worker from the Nilgiris, was beaten to death by his friend in a drunken brawl at a place on Madukkarai market road on Sunday evening.', 'The Podanur police have arrested Mujibur Rahman (22), a resident of Arignar Anna Nagar on Eachanari road, in connection with the murder. The police said that Biji, Rahman and Reegan of Kuniyamuthur had consumed alcohol together on Sunday evening.', 'According to the police, Rahman attempted to take money from Biji’s pocket in inebriated state.', 'When Biji resisted the attempt, a provoked Rahman took a stone and hit him on the head.', 'The injured man was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died without responding to the treatment in the early hours of Monday. The Police have arrested Rahman on murder charges.', 'In a second incident, a marriage broker from Palakkad district in Kerala, was stabbed to death in front of his wife near Pollachi on Sunday. M. Subramani (58), a native of Chittur in Palakkad, was murdered by a man hailing from K. Nagoor near Pollachi following a quarrel.', 'According to the police, S. Selvaraj (42) of Sendhukinnaru Street near K. Nagoor had called Subramani to look for a marriage alliance for a known person.', "Subramani and his wife Sathiyavani (48) went to Selvaraj's house around 11.30 a.m.", 'The police said that Subramani and Selvaraj picked up a quarrel while checking possible alliances. In the course of the quarrel, Selvaraj assaulted Subramani in chest with fist.', 'Neighbours rushed to the house hearing the cries of Sathiyavani and called an ambulance. However, he died before the ambulance arrived.', 'The body was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The Gomangalam police are searching for Selvaraj.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


As summer season arrives, Forest Dept. on toes to control wildfires
['The fire which was reported in the limits of Madukkarai forest range on Sunday.', 'The Forest Department has stepped into the most challenging season of the year with the summer triggering incidents of forest fire and crop damages by wild animals that stray out from forest in search of water and fodder.', 'With the Department staff forced to engage in fire prevention activities, there is a shortage of manpower to prevent straying of wild animals from the forests, especially wild elephants.', 'Forest fringes of Madukkarai forest range witnessed minor fire for at least three consecutive days. Similarly, fire spread to forest fringes in Marudhamalai foothills on Sunday and Thoovaipathi-Panapalli areas of Anaikatti on Monday.', 'According to senior officials of the Department, more than 130 Anti-poching Watchers (APWs) and nine-member Rapid Response Team (RRT) are actively involved in the front in preventing forest fire in the Coimbatore Forest Division. They are supported by forest watchers, forest guards, foresters and forest range officers.', 'Along with incidents of forest fire, straying of wild animals especially elephants have started in several forest ranges. This was primarily due to shortage of fodder and water in forests.', 'In Thadagam valley, from where two wild elephants Vinayagan and Chinna Thambi were recently captured and translocated, is again witnessing regular crop raids by wild elephants.', 'Farmers from Thadagam said that another giant tusker whom people have named Komban is straying into agricultural fields on a regular basis.', 'Though elephant expert Ajay Desai, consultant to WWF-India, had recommended the Department to continue negative conditioning measures to prevent straying of other elephants, kumkis were withdrawn from the field.', 'The two kumkis of the Coimbatore Forest Division John and Cheran are at Chadivayal elephant camp where they are currently undergoing the 48-day-long rejuvenation camp. Similarly, 25 elephants of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are also part of the annual camp at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp. “These elephants will not be shifted from the camp unless there is a demanding situation”, an official said.', 'Meanwhile, P. Kandasamy of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (Non-political) said that District Collector K. Rajamani has assured to hold a tripartite meeting before March, 15 which is expected to become a platform to discuss issues such as human-animal conflict and damages to crops and lives. “This has been a long-time demand of the farmers and the new Collector has assured to hold the meeting. We hope that the meeting will address our grievances and bring scientific remedies to control human-animal conflict,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmer donates PM- Kisan scheme money to Govt. to dredge tank
['Anticipating the transfer of the first instalment of ₹ 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, a farmer on Monday donated the money to the district administration for dredging a water body near his village.', 'At the weekly grievance day meeting, K. Velusamy of Oonjapalayam, near Kaniyur, in Sulur Taluk, walked in with a demand draft for ₹ 2,000 drawn in favour of the District Collector. As Collector K. Rajamani was not present, he presented the demand draft with his petition to the District Revenue Officer, D. Ramaduraimurugan.', 'The farmer clarifies that he has not returned the money or was against the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, under which the Government of India transfers ₹ 6,000 each to farmers with less than five acre.', 'He says that farmers in his village have for long been knocking on the doors of the Public Works Department, district administration and State Government and petitioning State and Central leaders and ministers to have the tank dredged.', 'The farmers also petitioned Union Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, Arjun Ram Meghwal to include the tank under the Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies scheme, he says.', 'On hearing about him giving money to the Collector, many other farmers have expressed willingness to do so and soon there will be hundreds of them giving ₹ 2,000 to the district administration to dredge the tank, he adds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Icons of Coimbatore award presented
['Mr. Senthil said his group has been identifying persons for the award since 2013. Mr. Shaar said Syrian students were keen on pursuing their higher education in India because of the hospitable nature of the people and the culture. At present, there were 400 students in various Indian institutions. He also said that Syria looked forward to rebuilding the country with Indian support.', 'The recipients of the award were Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation, Manickam Athappa Gounder, Chairman, MAK Group of Companies, Jaya Mahesh, Founder, Jaya Mahesh Body Sculpting Therapy, Vignesh Prabhu, Illusionist, R. Manikandan, coordinator, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu, Manimekalai Mohan, Founder, SSVM Institutions, Nanjil Nadan, Tamil writer, A. Rajkumar, Chairman and Director, Clinical Operations, GKNM Hospital, Rajesh Govindarajulu, jeweller and columnist, R. Sathy, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Madukkarai, K. Priyanka, chess champion, A. Kanniyappan, Para Olympian, Balaji, radio jockey, R. Raveendran, Secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, and S. Vengojayaprasad, Diabetologist and Consultant Physician, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.', 'R. Manickam, Chief Executive Officer, Rathinam Group of Institutions, presided over the function.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Overwhelming response to essay contest
['Students from schools across Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts took part in the competition. The essays were scrutinised for language, ideas, creativity, relevance and presentation.', 'Hundred essays were finalised for prizes, from which the top five were given prizes at function held on Sunday at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.', 'President of Nanneri Kazhagam Iakako.Subramaniam spoke on how the association had strengthened over the past four years and established a connect with the young generation.', 'Writer Bava Chelladurai shared his life experiences with the gathering at the function. He was happy that nearly 75 % of the winners were girls. Emphasising the need to uplift the underprivileged, he said that instead of the rich, the protagonist of any writer’s work was a person who led a simple life with good attitude and upholding morality.', 'The first prize in the essay contest went to M. Kumudhini from Thambu Matriculation Higher Secondary School, the second and third spots were bagged by A. Sundharavalli from Sachidanandha Jothi Nikethan and S. Swetha from Venkatalakshmi Matriculation Higher Secondary School respectively.', 'A. Pranav from Adwaith Matriculation Higher Secondary School and M.V. Yoga Shri from Venkatalakshmi Higher Secondary School were the special prize winners.', 'The event was conducted with Vijaya Pathipagam, Udumalai.Com, Cotsvilla Resorts, Brookfields Mall, Sri Krishna Sweets and Lenco Timewear as the prize partners, Zone Hotel as the hospitality partner, Hello FM as the radio partner and Simplicity as the digital partner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Forest Dept. bars tourists from walking to Doddabetta Peak
['A rise in the number of Indian gaurs in the Doddabetta area, has forced the Forest Department to ban tourists from walking a two-km stretch to the Doddabetta Peak, one of the major tourist attractions here.', 'So far, tourists could walk to the peak from the Forest Department check post on the main road. Now, they will have to either hire vehicles or use shuttle services offered by the department to get there.', 'Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris Division) K. Saravanakumar said the department, which manages the Doddabetta Eco-Development Committee, had taken the decision to ban visitors from walking to the peak owing to safety concerns. “Indian gaurs are spotted regularly along the stretch, and there is a concern that visitors could get injured, or worse, in a confrontation with a wild animal,” he said. The department was also taking action against picnickers and other visitors who ventured into the forests for taking photographs. However, the department’s decision to close the badly-damaged road from the check post to the peak to walkers has caused concern among residents, including those residing in the Mel Kodappamund and Gorishola areas. They fear this could result in gridlocks along the Ooty-Kotagiri Road during peak tourist season.', 'The forest department said it was aware of the concerns and was coming up with strategies to manage the traffic bound for the peak during the tourism season this summer.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Halting of buses at wrong spots hits traffic
['Over the years, Madurai-Melur Road around Mattuthavani has a significant development after the (now re-named) MGR bus stand came into existence. The markets for flower, foodgrains, vegetable and fruits and the omni bus stand along with scores of hotels and lodges have added to faster development of the area on both sides of the highway.', 'Despite the widened highway, traffic congestion during peak hours has become unavoidable between the Industrial Estate junction and Uthangudi junction. A series of bus stops and junctions too have slowed down the vehicular movement.', 'And adding to the traffic jam is halting of buses, mini-buses and autorickshaws on the highway opposite the entrance of the bus stand.', 'With passengers stand on the edge of the carriage way, buses halt on the middle of the road blocking the way for other vehicles following them. This includes buses from K.K. Nagar side attempting to enter the bus stand and other vehicles trying to make a u-turn back into the city side.', 'Vehicles coming out of RTO Office Road and those from Melur Road trying to cross this junction towards RTO Office road are also not spared.', 'Amidst total chaos, vehicles start moving at a slower pace as and when the buses that had halted resume their journey. But, the same blockade returns to the spot within seconds as another bus halts at the same spot.', 'The city police have somehow managed to prevent share autorickshaws from picking or dropping passengers at this point.', 'The crew of the buses also stop here with an eye on their daily collection. “It is the traffic police who bear the brunt when traffic gets choked,” he added.', 'A drive for a week or fortnight will end this menace that leads to traffic congestion up to 120 Feet Road junction and further.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Maha Sivarathri fest begins with flag hoisting
['Maha Sivarathri festival begins at Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'The 12-day Masi Maha Sivarathri festival began with flag-hoisting at Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'Hundreds of devotees witnessed the ceremony conducted amid chanting of mantras and rituals by temple priests led by chief priest Vijay Anand.', 'Joint Commissioner of the temple G.S. Mangayarkarasi and assistant divisional engineer K. Mayilvahanan were among those present at the ceremony.', 'Maha Sivarathri would be observed on March 4 — the eighth day — with a procession of Swamy and Ambal around the four streets of the temple in silver car.', 'Besides locals, sadhus and pilgrims from north India were expected to visit the temple on the night of March 4 and throughout the 12 days, the officials said.', 'The temple authorities and Rameswaram municipality had made arrangements for drinking water. Sanitary facilities were also in place.', 'The district police had made elaborate security arrangements and installed CCTV cameras at all strategic points to regulate the crowd during the festival.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Musical talent showcased well
['He explained how only a few languages had a continuous history of more than two thousand years, and, among them, Tamil was an active, classical language, which became a way of life .', 'The second programme of the day was a vocal concert of B. Gopalakrishnan, who was accompanied by R. Govindarajan on the violin, G. Jagadeesh Aravind on mrudangam, Avantiraj on khanjira and D. Bharadwaj on the moharsing.', 'S. Padmanabhan.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sub-Collector shifted for ‘acting tough against illegal sand miners’
['Paramakudi Sub-Collector B. Vishnu Chandran, who was taking stern action against illegal sand mining in the revenue division, has been transferred and posted as Nagercoil Sub-Collector.', 'Administrative reasons are cited for his transfer a few days after he launched a crackdown on illegal sand mining at Kadugusandai in Kadaladi block and ‘seized’ five excavators used for illegal sand mining.', 'Though officials claimed that Mr. Vishnu Chandran was transferred in tune with the procedure to shift officials who had completed three years of service in a particular place in view of the coming elections, local sources said he was transferred for taking on the sand mining lobby as he hardly completed one and a half years as Paramakudi Sub-Collector.', 'His wife Asha Ajit, who was working as Sub-Collector in Devakottai in Sivaganga district, was also transferred to Tiruchendur as Sub-Collector.', 'R. Senthilvel Murugan, Deputy Tahsildar, Kadaladi, was also transferred as he often conducted surprise raids and stopped sand quarrying at Kadugusandai, the sources said. He was posted as Deputy Tahsildar, Elections, Thiruvadanai.', 'Official sources said a team of revenue officials, led by Mr. Chandran, seized five excavators and detained them at the site after removing ‘some tools’ and immobilising them, but the highly influential ‘miners’ ‘took away’ the machines. Village Administrative Officer K. Jayakodi lodged a complaint against the permit holder, but Sayalkudi police did not register an FIR.', 'The police said the FIR was not registered as the excavators were not in their possession and they could not be brought to the police station. On the other hand, the police ‘allowed’ the sand miners to move away the machines, the sources said. The police had also released two two-wheelers seized and kept in the police station, they claimed.', 'Meanwhile, hearing a public interest litigation, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court stayed quarrying at Kadugusandai.', 'The court also stayed quarrying at Poolankulam, passing interim orders on another petition.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Key establishments exempted
['Following the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court’s order to crack down on building plan violations, the Kodaikanal Municipality resorted to a lock-and-seal procedure. However, with the Master Plan for Kodaikanal yet to be revised, certain establishments were given relief till then.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and G. R. Swaminathan heard a batch of petitions that sought relief for an interim period. Considering the plea, the bench allowed educational institutions, residential buildings, government buildings, hospitals, banks, small shops like bakeries, grocery stores, small eateries and saloons to be exempted for now.', 'However, it instructed the municipality to go ahead with the lock-and-seal procedure with regard to lodges, cottages, hotels and resorts built in violation of the building plan. It further added that even religious establishments should not be spared if they were built in violation of the plan. Be it temple, mosque or church, those built in violations of the plan had to be locked and sealed, the court said.', 'The State had informed the court that the violators were identified, following the crackdown on them. The court, taking into account the submissions, wondered if Kodaikanal was burdened with people from all over pouring in to settle down in the town. Maybe, there should be a regulation on settlement in Kodaikanal, it said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gramalaya begins project to prevent open defecation
['Gramalaya, a city-based non-governmental organisation involved in water management and public sanitation, has begun a project to prevent open defecation and dumping of solid and liquid waste in the Cauvery river in Musiri town panchayat of Tiruchi district.', 'Supported by corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of Merrill Lynch Capital Ltd., Mumbai, Gramalaya has already helped 132 families of Nataraja Nagar in Ward 11 to build 100 smart toilets (bathroom attached toilets with twin leach pit). This has been accompanied by a hygiene awareness programme to make all the women and adolescent girls in the village switch over to reusable cloth sanitary napkins.', 'The NGO has been sanctioned ₹1.90 crore by Merrill Lynch Capital to extend the programme through the entire Tiruchi district covering 14 blocks. So far 9,604 packets of reusable cloth pads worth ₹30 lakh have been distributed to the women in Tiruchi district through its social marketing approach.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


700 scooters handed over to beneficiaries
['Food Minister R. Kamaraj and CollectorT. Anand with the beneficiaries of ‘Amma Scooter’ scheme at Tiruvarur Collectorate on Monday.', 'Seven hundred scooters were handed over to beneficiaries under the Amma Scooter Scheme here on Monday. Handing over the vehicles to the beneficiaries, Food Minister R. Kamaraj claimed that schemes such as this where subsidy is being given for scooters purchased by working women and others have been received well by the people.', 'With the distribution of 700 scooters today, the target – 1,825 scooters - fixed for the district under this scheme has been achieved. A sum of ₹1.75 crore would be released as subsidy to the beneficiaries.', 'In addition to this, improvised scooters for differently-abled persons numbering 72 and motor fitted sewing machines and hearing aid equipment, worth ₹23.12 lakh was also distributed on the occasion.', 'Earlier, the Minister distributed priceless bicycles to a few students at a function held at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Kudavasal.', 'Speaking on the occasion, he said that a total of 7,479 bicycles would be distributed to students studying in seven schools in Nannilam, Kudavasal and Valangaiman Unions at a cost of ₹91.79 lakh.', 'Collector T. Anand and other senior officials were present.', 'The Minister also declared open an exhibition highlighting the welfare schemes and the achievements of the government at the Tiruvarur bus stand.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Take to entrepreneurship, engineering graduates told
['Students ought to make the most of ‘Make in India’ programme and other opportunities provided by the Central and State Governments to transform into entrepreneurs, Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University P. Manisankar told graduating students of Anna University on Sunday.', 'Delivering the Graduation Day address of the University College of Engineering, BIT Campus, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pattukottai and Thirukuvalai, Prof. Manisankar urged students to develop qualities of persistence, commitment, initiative, efficiency, goal-setting, management ability, self-confidence, risk-taking ability and team work to succeed as entrepreneurs.', 'Students must become job-providers rather than seeking jobs, he emphasised.', 'Prof. Manisankar joined the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, Chennai, M. K. Surappa in presenting degrees to a total of 1,628 undergraduate and post-graduate students.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Morning Digest: Cong. and BJP want tribal eviction order reviewed, NIA says owner of Pulwama attack vehicle has joined Jaish, and more
['The presidents of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rahul Gandhi and Amit Shah, have directed the Chief Ministers of the States ruled by their parties to file a review petition in the Supreme Court over its ruling ordering the eviction of tribals unable to provide sufficient proof of claim to forest land.', 'The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday said it had tracked down the owner of the car used by the suspected Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM) suicide bomber in the February 14 attack on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy in Pulwama. Forty jawans were killed and five injured in the attack. The owner of the vehicle has since joined the terror outfit, the agency said.', 'For the first time after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was made a Congress general secretary, she will share a stage with her mother and party leader, Sonia Gandhi, along with party president Rahul Gandhi, in Gujarat on Thursday. The meeting will be preceded by a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the top decision-making body of the Congress, at Sardar Patel Memorial here.', 'Families of forcefully disappeared persons in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province observed a hartal on Monday, demanding justice for war-time human rights abuses. According to sources in the northern districts, most schools, shops and business establishments were shut, in an act of solidarity with the relatives of missing persons, some of whom have been agitating continuously for two years now in Kilinochchi district.', 'Britain has an obligation to end its administration of the Chagos Archipelago — home to the U.S. military base of Diego Garcia — and complete the process of decolonisation of Mauritius, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague has said in an advisory opinion that is a significant legal victory for Mauritius and other nations, including India, that supported its case.', 'The Supreme Court’s order to evict, over the next five months, occupants of forest lands who failed to make a successful claim for tenure under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, has once again highlighted the dilemma of reconciling inalienable tribal rights with biodiversity conservation. When the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act was passed, it was with the wholly welfarist goal of making these communities partners in conservation.', 'G.R. Karthikeyan, father of India’s first Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan, was honoured with the Lifetime Achievement award at the FMSCI annual awards function on Monday. Narain spoke about his father’s inspiring presence in his career and as one of the pioneers in establishing a framework for Indian motorsport.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two electric buses run out of charge on Day 1
['Two of the 10 long-distance AC electric buses launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Monday ran out of charge, at Cherthala and at Vyttila in Ernakulam, on their maiden service between Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam.', 'The stranded passengers were taken to their destinations in other buses. Senior KSRTC officials blamed it on the technical wing’s ineptitude in readying charging points at Haripad and Ernakulam. Interestingly, the points were readied by Monday evening, leaving everyone guessing why they were not kept ready at least a day earlier.', 'The buses can operate up to 250 km after being charged for three-and-a-half hours. The officials concerned should have readied the two charging points en route or arranged to swap batteries with fully-charged ones. They should also have kept in mind that traffic snarls at towns en route and at bottlenecked Alappuzha on Monday would further drain the batteries. “The electric buses that were introduced to drive home the point of curtailing operational expenses and causing zero emission ended up making a further dent in our image,” said KSRTC officials.', 'Another senior official said the two buses ran out of charge probably since they were manned by new drivers who were not well versed with electric buses. The other eight buses operated as per schedule and reached the charging point at Aluva from Thiruvananthapuram, without any snag. From Tuesday, all buses will take a 15-minute tea break at Cherthala, during which time they will be recharged.', 'Elaborating on the cost savings and environmental benefits of electric buses over diesel buses, KSRTC sources said the per km cost works to approximately ₹49 per km. This covers the cost of each bus, maintenance expenses and salary of the driver provided by the private firm that has supplied the buses. The KSRTC has to provide electricity and services of the conductor.', 'In comparison, the cost of operating a diesel AC bus owned by KSRTC is over ₹70 per km. Unlike AC diesel buses with rear engine, electric buses are very silent, they added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Budget papers reveal dip in civic body’s revenue
['The budget papers of the Kochi Corporation reveal there is a considerable dip in revenue. While building tax collection was expected to be ₹96 crore during 2017-18, the actual collection was only ₹79 crore. Profession tax collection was expected to be ₹56 crore, but the collection was only ₹31 crore.', 'The collection of building tax and profession tax during the current financial year will be known only when the budget papers are presented next year. The target for the collection of building tax is ₹85 crore and professional tax ₹31 crore.', 'The discussions on the budget for the upcoming financial saw the ruling councillors and the Opposition engaged in a war of words. While Deputy Mayor T.J. Vinod claimed the budget to be a development oriented one, the Opposition called it “hollow” and “lacking a sense of reality”.', 'The Opposition also claimed that there was a lack of clarity in the budget papers and that the Deputy Mayor was blind to the problem of frequent fires at the Brahmapuram waste treatment site. However, the ruling councillors said the Corporation had become more people-friendly as it did not intend to impose more tax on people in the wake of the floods in the State last year.', 'The Opposition also criticised the ruling front for the absence of officials during the budget discussions on Monday. The absence of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary during the discussions was a violation of the rules, the Opposition claimed. Mayor Soumini Jain argued that the officials did not stay away from the discussions on purpose and were away on duties at the Brahmapuram site.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fire safety dept. for demolition of godown
['The Fire and Safety Department will recommend the demolition of the six-storey footwear godown near the Ernakulam Junction (South) railway station that was gutted in a major fire last week.', 'A recommendation to that effect citing structural instability will be part of the report that the department is likely to submit to the District Collector on Tuesday. The report will also list out the alleged violations that led to the incident in the heart of the city.', 'He said while the Fire and Safety Department had issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) for shop-cum-residence occupancy to the building in 2006, the owners had changed the occupancy status to godown despite the fact that godowns were not permissible at such a height. Besides, material far exceeding the capacity of the building were stored inside, he added.', 'However, senior officials with the Public Works Department (PWD) said the department had not yet been asked to inspect the building.', 'Meanwhile, the Electrical Inspectorate Department has set in motion a process to carry out a detailed investigation into the incident after a preliminary inspection of the site held last Friday. A deputy assistant electrical inspector has been entrusted with the inquiry.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fire at waste plant not accidental, says Dathan
['The recent fire that broke out at Kochi Corporation’s waste dumping site at Brahmapuram was not accidental, M.C. Dathan, Scientific Adviser to the Chief Minister, has said.', 'Inaugurating a five-day training programme on ‘Road Safety Engineering Measures’ organised by National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) in association with the Asian Institute of Transport Development for Ministry of Road Transport and Highways here on Monday, Dr. Dathan said the fire on Friday at Brahmapuram was a move to sabotage the government’s proposal to build a modern solid waste treatment plant to solve the garbage issue.', 'The fire was man-made as it reportedly originated at several places in the dump yard, he said, adding that vested interests working against the setting up of the modern plant was behind the incident.', 'The scientific adviser also criticised the media for laying more emphasis on negative news and sidelining development initiatives. “There is no solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram at present as being reported. It is a yard for dumping waste collected by the Corporation,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


PCB to test ash from Brahmapuram for heavy metal presence
['The KSPCB is looking into how far the fire has infiltrated into the almost five-metre deep waste heaps at the plant as the generation of methane gas could keep the waste piles simmering.', 'Though the fire and the resultant smoke at the Kochi Corporation’s solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram have been brought under control, the potential heavy metal presence in the ash deposits threatens to pollute the atmosphere and endanger public health.', 'The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) will collect samples of ash from the site on Tuesday for testing them for the presence of hazardous and toxic components such as dioxins, furan and heavy metals.', 'Attempts to collect samples on Monday failed, as the constant churning of the site using excavators pressed the ash further down into the heaps.', 'The agency is also looking into how far the fire has infiltrated into the almost five-metre deep waste heaps at the plant as the generation of methane gas could keep the waste piles simmering.', 'Meanwhile, the ambient air monitoring readings from the two centres of the KSPCB at Vyttila and Ambalamugal have found the presence of particulate matter to be more than three times the threshold levels.', 'The readings at 7.30 a.m. on Monday put particulate matter of 2.50-microgram size, capable of infiltrating directly into the lungs and causing health complications, to be 191 at Vyttila as against the threshold level of 60.', 'He said he kept receiving calls from residents at Infopark, Rajagiri and Irumpanam, complaining about the unease caused by the smog up until 1.30 a.m. on Monday.', 'The KSPCB fears that the Corporation’s suspension of waste collection in the wake of the fire may lead to fresh challenges as waste might get dumped at various points.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fire extinguished totally
['The fire at the Brahmapuram waste treatment plant has been totally extinguished after four days of concerted efforts by the district administration, the Fire and Rescue Services and various government departments.', 'A press release from the Public Relations Department cited District Collector K. Mohammed Y. Safirulla as saying that a comprehensive inquiry was being made into the cause of the fire and that efforts would be made to ensure that such incidents did not recur.', 'Personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services, the police are at the site to ensure that fire breakouts are prevented, the press release said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


5 kg of gold seized at airport
['More than 5 kg of gold was seized in different operations at the Cochin International Airport on Monday.', 'Customs Commissioner Sumit Kumar said that Customs officials had busted six gold smuggling attempts and also arrested a Sri Lankan national at the airport. The biggest seizure involved 11 gold bars, which weighted more than 2 kg. The gold was seized from a flight that arrived from Riyadh.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Pollution from waste burning may linger for days
['Fire and Rescue Services personnel trying to douse the fire that broke out at the Brahmapuram solid waste treatment plant.', 'The Health department in the district, which has done an assessment of the health hazards posed to the people owing to the burning of plastic at the Brahmapuram solid waste treatment plant, has said that many persons had complained of respiratory problems in the city, but there has not been any acute cases so far.', 'A medical camp was conducted at Irimpanam, Thripunithura, the day after smoke enveloped the city. The field staff of the department have been going around in Vadavukode-Puthenkurisu panchayat and nearby areas and have set up a unit at the Vyttila mobility hub for any emergency action required.', 'The smoke that enveloped the city looked disastrous initially, but was later blown away towards the coast and beyond. That perphaps saved the people from getting seriously affected, said Dr. S. Sreedevi, additional district medical officer.', 'However, the Health authorities would be making another review of the hazards as pollution from the plastic burning could linger for the next 48-72 hours, besides having long-term effects, she said.', 'Broncho-spasms are the immediate acute effects of smoke and pollution, whereas the long-term effects could be malignant, said Dr. Bindu C.G., assistant professor, Alappuzha Medical College and secretary of the Cochin Thoracic Society. The society had launched the programme “Kochi Fights Air Pollution” to create awareness on how garbage burning compounds pollution.', 'Even though Kochi is lower down on pollution rating compared with other metropolitan cities, vehicular pollution topped the city’s concern. Waste burning and construction pollution had increased in recent times, said Dr. Bindu.', 'Regular exposure to burning of plastic and other waste could affect water sources and land. Burning of waste increased the amount of particulate matter in the atmosphere. When temperatures were down, dew drops would form which absorbed the particulate matter in the atmosphere and brought it down, said Dr. Bindu.', 'Dr. Jacob Baby, pulmonologist, Aster Medcity, said that garbage burning was a serious issue that affected people prone to asthma or who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). “We do have people admitted to the hospital for serious respiratory issues as a fallout of garbage burning in their backyard as well”. In a clinical setting, there is at least one case a week on the issue, said Dr. Baby. There are well-researched studies on how pollution affected the heart too. Wearing a mask could help reduce exposure, he said.', 'Even for those who did not have a respiratory condition, there could be immediate effects of smoke such as experiencing light-headed feeling because of the low oxygen level in the atmosphere, nausea and vomiting, as the people in Irimpanam experienced, said Dr. Anitha Thilakan, assistant professor, Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Quite a few people had relocated from Irimpanam for a day, she said. Children and elderly were affected more by the smoke, she said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Centre gives in-principle approval for Kochi metro’s Kakkanad extension
['The Central government on Monday accorded in-principle approval for Kochi metro’s Phase-II extension to Kakkanad.', 'The 11.2-km extension that is expected to cost ₹2,500 crore would begin from the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium, Kaloor, pass through Infopark and terminate at SmartCity in Kakkanad, which is set to emerge as Kerala’s IT hub.', 'A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish, managing director of KMRL, said that he was informed of the approval on Monday evening. Many officials, led by Chief Secretary Tom Jose worked hard to get the Centre’s approval, he said.', 'Next in line is clearance from the Public Investment Board (PIB) and later, the final approval by the Union Cabinet. All this is expected to happen before the Lok Sabha poll dates are announced.', 'Armed with the Centre’s in-principle approval, the KMRL is set to commence land acquisition to widen the road beneath the proposed metro viaduct to 22 metres. While the social-impact assessment is over for this, the preliminary notification and detailed survey are expected to be conducted before June. Ground-level land acquisition will begin from June, KMRL sources said.', 'Encroachments on the bottlenecked Civil Line Road and other parts will be removed shortly.', 'The French lending agency, AFD, has committed a ₹1,300 crore soft loan for the metro’s Kakkanad extension.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fire outbreaks at multiple locations in Ernakulam
['Firefighters try to douse a fire that broke out at Ramanthuruth near Vallarpadam in Kochi on Sunday.', 'Fire and Rescue Service personnel in the city were kept on their toes all through Sunday following over a dozen fire incidents in the city, even as Kochiites were coming to terms with thick smoke that continued to bellow from the massive fire that engulfed Kochi Corporation’s waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram on Friday.', 'Grass and waste caught fire at Thammanam on the day, engulfing three vehicles parked nearby. They included two cars and an autorickshaw.', 'Another car parked near a garbage heap opposite Oberon Mall also caught fire after someone set fire to the garbage.', 'Personnel of the Gandhinagar fire station, many of whom are already deployed in Brahmapuram, attended six distress calls till evening on Sunday and doused the fire in as many places.', 'The spree of fire incidents began with dried grass catching fire at Ramanthuruth near the International Container Transshipment Terminal at Vallarpadam. Grass in a vacant plot at Pullepady caught fire after a nearby garbage pile was set afire.', 'Personnel of the Club Road fire station doused fires reported when a vast tract full of dried grass caught fire near the Mangalavanam bird sanctuary, twice in the day.', 'The strong wind from the backwaters on the western side resulted in the fire spreading fast. Fire was also reported from an electric line near Madhava Pharmacy Junction.', 'With the intense summer heat aiding the spread of fire, Fire and Rescue officials have requested people to desist from setting fire to weeds and garbage, since it could become unmanageable, posing danger to people and property.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Early Cabinet nod sought for FACT revival package
['Save FACT Action Committee, a combine of trade unions at the public sector fertilizer company, has said that despite the company putting up a great performance in production and productivity it was under threat of closure and that a revival package, now under the consideration of the Union government, must be approved at the earliest.', 'An appeal to the government said that with the general election around the corner, it was imperative that the Union Cabinet approved the revival package so that the company is able to stand on its feet once again. The Union Department of Fertilizers has submitted a revival package for the approval of the Cabinet. The proposals include financial restructuring of the company.', 'The action committee will organise a hunger strike demanding the implementation of a revival package for the company and to press the government for speedy Cabinet approval for the proposals for revival.', 'The hunger strike is being organised in front of the Gandhi statue at the Rajendra Maidan on Tuesday, said a press release. More than 500 volunteers will participate in the strike.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Pedestrians get a raw deal as authorities fail to walk the talk
['A tightrope walk for Kochiites: (From left) Pedestrians crossing the busy Kadavanthra Junction; vehicles parked on footpaths causing inconvenience to pedestrians on M.G. Road; and pedestrains who are unable to climb foot overbridges cross the accident-prone Edappally-Aroor NH 66 Bypass risking their lives.', 'Pedestrians are struggling to traverse city roads, what with unimaginatively designed skywalks, absent or encroached footpaths and reckless drivers giving them a nightmare.', 'Lack of proper footpaths at busy junctions such as Vyttila and Kacherippady, for instance, forces pedestrians to bypass traffic rules and resort to jaywalking.', 'It is a different problem that pedestrians at the High Court Junction face—vehicles being parked on the footpath, and street vendors having encroached upon the area, hindering free pedestrian mobility. However, lack of adequate space for parking tempts people to park vehicles on footpaths, claimed a taxi driver, who did not want to be named.', 'Though skywalks were introduced at five spots (Edappally Junction, near EMC Hospital, Chalikkavattom, Kannadikkadu, and near Kerala University of Fisheries and Oceanic Sciences at Madavana) on the Edappally-Aroor stretch of the NH bypass, the steel-fabricated structures are extremely unpopular with pedestrians. Their height and design make them almost inaccessible to senior citizens and the differently abled.', 'At the foot overbridge near Ernakulam Medical Centre, an existing zebra crossing has been blackened out, ostensibly to force pedestrians to use the overbridge. But pedestrians continue to use the distinguishable markings to cross the road, as vehicles zip past, with the blackened-out zerbra line barely visible to drivers.', 'Nearly 18 accidents involving pedestrians were reported in the city this year, according to a source in the traffic police. According to reports of the Walkability Study Kochi (a study by HealthBridge Foundation of Canada on the walkability and pedestrian facilities in Kochi) of 2017, only 62% of roads in the city have sidewalks on both sides. While 16% have sidewalks only on one side, the remaining 22% roads have no sidewalks at all.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Federer wins in Dubai to begin latest bid for 100th title
['Roger Federer’s latest attempt to win his 100th ATP singles title made a shaky start at the Dubai Championships where he overcame Philipp Kohlschreiber 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 on Monday.', 'Federer entered the first-round match with a 13-0 record against the German, and broke in the first game to run through the first set.', 'But Kohlschreiber forced a third set between them for only the third time. In that set, Federer forced an error to break for 2-0 and held, and cruised home.', 'Federer won his 99th tour title in October in Basel, and his bid for the 100th has ended so far in two semifinals, then the fourth round of the Australian Open.', 'Next up for him is Fernando Verdasco, the 2017 Dubai runner-up to Andy Murray. Verdasco beat Italian qualifier Thomas Fabbiano 3-6, 6-3, 6-2.', 'The two other seeds in action beside Federer lost.', 'Nikolaz Basilashvili, the highest-ranked Georgian in ATP history at No. 19, upset fourth-seeded Karen Khachanov of Russia 6-4, 6-1, and Jan-Lennard Struff of Germany spoiled seventh-seeded Milos Raonic’s Dubai debut 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.', 'Basilashvili will play for a spot in the quarterfinals against defending champion Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain, who beat Indian wild card Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-3.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


More mixed events, please
['Despite making headlines worldwide, it is unlikely that the world will see a repeat of this. The future of the Hopman Cup is uncertain because the Association of Tennis Players (ATP) is planning to relaunch its World Team Cup, the ATP Cup, around the same time. This all-men’s event will serve as another springboard before the Australian Open, carry a hefty $15 million in prize money and, most importantly, contribute to player ranking points. On the other hand, despite its star performances, the Hopman Cup does not count towards rankings.', 'Of all major sports, tennis celebrates men and women competing as equals in the same major tournaments, for the same prize money, and in front of the same crowds. Apart from mixed doubles at the Grand Slams and the Olympics, the Hopman Cup is the only tournament where tennis fans can witness the best men and women players compete on the same court. It is one of those rare events that features mixed doubles as the main crowd draw. Some stellar examples from the past include Boris Becker and Steffi Graf, who played together in 1992, and Federer and Martina Hingis, who played together in 2001. This year, Federer and Belinda Bencic won. A record 1,10,364 people were in attendance and several days were sold out.', 'This is perhaps why it is surprising that the sport has decided to let it go, rather than embrace it as a huge selling point. It also points to what the sport thinks of mixed doubles. Even at Grand Slams, these matches are given little fanfare and often relegated to smaller courts. The prize for winning at Wimbledon is $1.45 million compared to $3 million for the singles winner.', 'But for fans of tennis, some of the most entertaining matches feature both men and women. They are a mixture of power and finesse, joy and unpredictability. Tennis is a gender-balanced sport. But in the last two years, three new all-men events have been introduced: the ATP Cup, the revamped Davis Cup and the Laver Cup. There is no reason why these tournaments cannot include a female or mixed doubles version. When you get your best men and women together, it is ultimately the sport that wins.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sound ball tennis camp at MSLTA
['Warming up: A player getting used to sound ball tennis at the MSLTA courts.', 'The Indian Blind Sports Association (IBSA), in collaboration with Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA), conducted a tennis coaching camp for coaches and visually challenged players recently at the MSLTA courts. The initiative was aimed at encouraging ‘sound ball’ tennis in the state.', 'Tennis is played using a specially modified ball, which makes a tinkling sound on contact with the surface. Players listen to the sound as it strikes and swing the tennis racquet according to their anticipation of the ball’s location. Eknath Khedekar, a visually challenged person who learnt to play sound tennis while studying in London, is the inspiration behind this.', 'Simon McFarland, a Tennis Ireland Level 2 (ITF Advanced) coach, conducted the camp. More than 20 players from all over India took part, along with coaches. The effort will help in participation in international sound ball tennis events.', 'McFarland was accompanied by Michael Blease, assistant coach, and Dr. Davinder Kapur, MBE. Paul Carter was present for the closing ceremony, along with Divyanshu Ganatra, founder of Beyond Barriers Foundation. Bharat Oza, president MSLTA and David Absalom, General Secretary Indian Blind Sports Association.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Media watchdog says Williams cartoon didn’t breach standards
["Serena Williams in conversation with referee Brian Earley during the women's final of the U.S. Open tennis tournament against Naomi Osaka, of Japan, in New York.", 'A media watchdog has ruled that a cartoon of tennis star Serena Williams, which attracted global condemnation after being published by Melbourne’s Herald Sun newspaper, was not in breach of the Australian Press Council’s standards of practice.', 'Critics condemned the cartoon as racist.', 'In a ruling published on Monday, the Australian Press Council said it “acknowledged that some readers found the cartoon offensive” but said there was sufficient public interesting in commenting on the behavior of a player with a globally high profile.', 'Spitting the dummy is an Australian term for a tantrum.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Fact-checking of infoon Internet crucial’
['AU College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Ramamohana Rao felicitating Google Trainer Ravisankar Mudigonda at a workshop in Visakhapatnam on Monday.', 'Concerns over the authentication of the information available on the Internet are growing of late, Andhra University College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Rammohana Rao said.', 'Addressing a workshop on ‘Identifying Fake Content on the Internet and Fact-Checking,’ organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of AU, on Monday, he underlined the need for a mechanism to filter information flow and verify the facts.', 'Journalism and Mass Communication HoD P. Bobby Vardhan said technology had changed the face of information dissemination and checking the credibility was very crucial. Chairman of the Board of Studies D.V.R. Murthy said the Google had revolutionised information flow and it was high time it was regulated. Google Trainer-Fact Check Ravisankar Mudigonda explained how fake content could be identified.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Early onset of heatwave mayresult in erratic monsoon this year’
['Intense cyclonic storms are on the cards, says JAMSTEC scientist Swadhin Behara.', 'The early onset of heatwave conditions this year may result in a delayed and erratic monsoon in India, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) scientist Swadhin Behara has said.', 'Referring to climate change, Mr. Behara attributed it to the rise in the ocean temperature.', 'Explaining about the connection between the ocean temperature and climate, Mr. Behara said warming of oceans would lead to more intense cyclonic storms of category 4 and 5, rather than a prolonged monsoon season.', 'Over the last five decades, he said, the oceans have absorbed more then 80% of the global heat, impacting the ice in the poles. “The Arctic region is already bearing the brunt. We must cut the emission of green house gases before the Antarctic comes under its impact,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Tarun Tahiliani remembers Karl Lagerfeld, the kaiser of couture
['I was once invited by (late magazine editor and stylist) Isabella Blow to a Chanel fitting in Paris, in ’97-’98. It was July, so it was the couture show, but I was running late and I never made it. It is one of my deepest regrets.', 'Largerfeld worked with pre-established fashion houses, and had great resources. So he didn’t have to spend his time marketing the clothes or organising production, which unfortunately some of us Indian designers are still doing. So it was a fantastic marriage and probably the first of its kind, where someone came to represent the brand so powerfully, where Lagerfeld was Chanel.', 'The designer with model Ines De La Fressange.', 'There is no other designer in his league who did as much, who did four lines (sometimes even eight) a year. I’ve seen documentaries where he said he woke up at 3 am to do fittings at the age of 80. He had an energy that was unbelievable. That is another inspiration, the amount he worked and educated himself.', 'I’ve attended at least four to five of his shows, and his sets were spectacular. I can’t say the supermarket (Fall 2014, pictured below) and airplane (Spring 2012) sets were my favourites, but I loved the SS 2011, which I was at, where he had a French garden, but done in black and white (Lagerfeld had quipped, “It’s Versailles. It’s ‘dead French’”). For Spring 2019, he transformed the Grand Palais into Chanel By The Sea... to look at the models walking on sand, with waves lapping, was amazing. I even liked the one where he recreated his ateliers — with people working on clothes, as the models walked around. I suppose he showed the settings the clothes belonged to.', 'He was also one of the few people who always said what he thought. He was not called Kaiser Karl for nothing. And I have to say that, however outrageous they might have seemed at the time, I agreed with him 99.9% of the time. His line about how “people buy dresses to be happy, not to hear about somebody who suffered over a piece of taffeta” was brilliant; it really made me laugh. He just said things as they were. He didn’t mince his words even when social media surveillance came in. Being a little outrageous, I think, is OK; it goes with being a creative genius.', 'I think he did his best work in the last 30 years. He had command at his fingertips. I’m drawing sustenance from that. As designers, we should take cues from his discipline, fearlessness, ability to embrace change, and uncompromising stand on good taste. I see a lot of people in fashion compromise, for the sake of shock value. I think a designer’s job is to distil the essence and, at a time when people may be confused by the bombardment of information, to help them make refined choices.', 'Tarun Tahiliani is one of the country’s leading designers. Isabella Blow once refered to him as the Karl Lagerfeld of India.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


Rachel Koffsky of Christie’s on investing in collectible handbags
['In fashion, like in art, the death of a designer can change the market. With Chanel designer Karl Lagerfeld’s death, his designs have soared in value on resale sites. “The passing of Lagerfeld is a blow to the fashion world. I loved his whimsical sense of humour and ability to transcend time by embodying the spirit of Coco Chanel in a fresh, modern and often humorous take, season after season,” she says.', 'Does any one geography lead the way when it comes to handbag collecting? No, says Koffsky. “I travel to India, the Middle East, Russia and Europe to meet with my clients and appraise their pieces.” At Christie, she organises two large handbag auctions each year (in London). “I source the pieces for these sales and find new homes for the gorgeous bags on the auction block.” Clients can also depend on her advice on the best options for purchase, and at what price they can sell their own collectible items. “I help them cultivate their collections in the same way in which an Impressionist art specialist would curate an art collection,” she says.', 'At Mumbai’s second annual Luxury Lifestyle Weekend (which ends tomorrow, and features brands like Nikhil Thampi, Glenlivet and Panerai), enthusiasts can attend the primer by Christie’s on the luxury handbag as an investment option. Experts will focus on selection, getting the best price, the emergence of secondary markets, and trends to look out for.', 'Tomorrow, at 4.30 pm. LLW is being held at JioGarden, BKC, Mumbai.', 'For those whose budgets might be tighter, there is good news. Not every collectible item has to come with such a hefty price tag. Today’s millennials, after all, have their own aesthetic. “They love bum-bags, and extreme trend brands like Gucci and Balenciaga.” Which means there’s a lot more room to play with shape, size and design elements like appliqué.', 'Koffsky credits her university education in art history and mathematics with preparing her for a career in the world of luxury leather goods. “My art history skills are extremely useful — I am looking at colour, craftsmanship, tools. The math skills are very important as well,” she admits. “I look at shifting currencies, the overall market, seller’s fees, estimates and sale results.” She jokes that if she had known as a child that a handbag specialist could be a job, she would have chosen to be one.', 'In addition to her longstanding admiration for the Hermès Constance handbag, Koffsky herself is a big fan of Isabella Hearst’s creations. “They are simple yet complex. Sculptural yet functional. They are new classics.” Other beloved pieces include family heirlooms (“My mother and grandmother were handbag and shoe lovers”) — a 1950s lucite clutch with a tassel, and an original Marc Cross mini backpack.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


Rumination, deliberation
['On the first four tracks, there is much rumination and deliberation on youth and the feelings that accompany young life, twisted into familiar (yet unspoiled) Bollywood metaphors about betrayal and love. While ‘Nikamma’ is undeniably upbeat, Sawhney expands his sonic palette best with acid-drenched synth and horn sections over disco beats on songs like ‘Din Raat’ and ‘Ek Nagma’.', 'Sawhney seems to use his voice as both an instrument and for lyrical prowess. He sings wistfully about love and intoxication on ‘Ek Nagma’, with a cascading synth pattern becoming the hook.', 'Get the album on lifafa.me. Peter Cat Recording Co. and Lifafa perform at Fandom at Gilly’s Redefined on March 2.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Happy feet
['Catalan band Els Catarres has brought with them, to Chennai, their trademark happy-go-lucky style of music at the recently concluded Global Isai festival at Phoenix MarketCity, the last leg of their first Indian tour. The pop-folk band trio — comprising vocalist and frontman Èric Vergés, Jan Riera Prats on keyboard and trumpets, and Roser Cruells, on the bass — hardly ever stay still on stage; their energetic dancing, combined with fast-paced vocals and breezy guitar riffs, had the crowd dancing despite the songs being in Catalan.', 'While Èric, who writes most of the songs, is more into indie music, and Roser likes all things jazz, Jan is the one with a finger on the pulse of the mainstream. “He knows what’s popular, and what will work in a song,” he says. Jan, like Èric, started out with guitars, but then took an interest in the accordion, then the keys, and the banjo. “I know a little bit of everything. But I’m a master of none,” quips Jan.', 'Nine years ago, while playing in small Catalan bars, they never imagined they’d be doing an India tour some day. Their big break came in 2011, with ‘Jenifer’, a song they wrote as a joke, becoming an overnight hit; currently, it has 4.8 million views on YouTube. “Jenifer is this funny song about a Catalan boy who falls in love with a Spanish girl. A Romeo and Juliet type of situation,” he grins.', 'Then came the process of realigning themselves to the idea of being an official band. “We learnt a lot of things, but mainly that, one hit song doesn’t mean you’re successful.” There were constant fears of being written off as a one-hit-wonder, or ‘so last summer.’ “We have earned this space in people’s hearts, and now we had to work harder than before to keep it,” he says.', 'It was on this subject that the band took a workshop at Swarnabhoomi Academy of Music, for amateur musicians. Fame comes easy and cheap; but staying in the game, navigating your way through the marketing maze, all the while staying true to your art, is the real challenge. “What worked with us was that we weren’t very young — in our late twenties — when it happened. We had a decade of experience with not going anywhere,” he says.', 'Come November, the band will be performing with the 1983 Symphonic Orchestra in Barcelona. Only after that will they start composing for their next album. “We always take year-long breaks between albums, to make sure that our music style evolves, and remains fresh,” he signs off.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Contemplation at crossroads
['The seminar on Enhancing Career Opportunities organized by ITC and Indian Musicological Society at NCPA, Mumbai raised some serious questions. Is music was all about performance and career or was it about rigour? In this world of abundant opportunities how do we preserve its sanctity?', 'In an address that was thought provoking, Sahasrabuddhe rightly tilted the balance towards the essence and philosophy of fine arts. It could have -- going by the title of the seminar -- veered towards market, economy, and tools available for the present day musician, but Sahasrabuddhe emphatically maintained that crass commercialization and unscrupulousness was detrimental to art and the artiste. Taking it forward in a similar tenor, chairperson of Sangeet Natak Academy, Shekhar Sen said that temples in the past, were centres of culture and not consolidation camps of religion and ritual, like they are today. Do we need music to live? “Not really. But if you remove culture from life, people will have shorter lifespans. It is the responsibility of the society to support and nurture an artiste, for, they are representatives of culture,” he argued.', 'In the session on “Lack of Opportunities”, the young musicians painted a different picture. While both Smit Tewari and Yashwanth Vaishnav came from unconventional backgrounds and have put up with enormous difficulty, they both felt that there are enough number of opportunities. Social media and Youtube they agreed, gave them considerable exposure, and has increased career opportunities. Both these young musicians felt that teaching was a source of steady income, however, they wondered “if everyone can become a teacher?” Adding nuance to the whole argument, vocalist Sanjeev Chimmalagi felt that while youtube has rendered the world a stage, it had to be used judiciously. It is a learning tool, but there’s too much of it. “Struggle is a constant to every creative artiste’s life. Today the struggle is of too much too soon. For instance, Colours TV asked me to send my students for a show. Now should I send them or not? Is it an opportunity or a diversion? These are the dangers about which one should constantly be aware,” he explained. “What is an artiste’s life without struggle? His art matures only when in struggle,” added Smit.', 'Dr. Mandavi Singh, Vice Chancellor of the Indira Sangeet Vishvavidyalay, Khairagarh University, took the audience on a journey through the programmes of the university, set up in 1956 for Performing Arts. A kathak dancer herself, she projected the earnest efforts of the university in motivating students with creative abilities.', 'Moderating the session on Teaching and Promotion of Indian Music, Pt. Vidhyadhar Vyas said that it is imperative to understand and adapt to the cultural changes of the music world. But is that really possible in the present, asked Pt. Ritwik Sanyal? “We are at cross roads and have plenty of stumbling blocks. As a community, we have to think seriously about the decisions we make.” Agreeing with the seriousness of the situation, B.B. Chatterjee of ITC, Kolkata, felt that since the associations with Indian Classical Music are spiritual, a career in music has to be seen both at the levels of Sadhana and Performance. “We also have to make a choice between constructive criticism and destructive appreciation,” he emphasized. Pt. Nayan Ghosh spoke at length about the journey of Sangeeth Mahabharathi, established by Pt. Nikhil Ghosh. “In the last 62 years, we boast off an unbroken chain of teaching, festivals, lecdems, workshops and more. We promoted meaningful music, and we have created teachers, research assistants, music journalists and event managers. We have also created musicians capable of heading archives and digitization studios. In all, we are a centre for excellence in performing arts,” he explained.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Music is life, all else is subsidiary
['Most often, when we think of a career, the focus is usually mostly on the livelihood, concert platform opportunities and recognition/respect dimensions. The objective of the seminar is also formulated in this stricter focus, and it is warranted. But if we reflect upon the lives of the masters of the yesteryears, I wonder whether this focus will be adequate. We have heard of a young Bhimsen Joshiji or Mallikarjun Mansur ji running away from home and then going through considerable hardship in their early career. I am certain that at their young age, they did not have any idea as to what was meant by being an illustrious concert performer, or of the various Padma and other awards that came their way in later life. It was plain and pure passion and devotion for music that drove them without even bothering about where their next meal was going to come from. If two square meals a day and a warm bed to sleep in would satisfy your livelihood requirements, then securing these should not be difficult.', 'Then your entire life is available for you to pursue your musical career. These career opportunities are multiple and the progress in your musical journey could be life-long without the worries about a career. Let me illustrate the different dimensions of a musical career starting with the examples of my three Gurus, for everyone of whom a lifelong immersion in the pursuit of music was a given.', 'My first Guru, the late Pandit Narayanrao Datar, was a music teacher all through his life. Music tuitions were his source of livelihood. He received tremendous respect and affection from all his students and their families, but he was not a concert artist, neither did he receive any accolades therefrom. I am in his eternal debt for his contribution to music in general and the foundation he laid for me.', 'My dear mother and second Guru, Manik Bhide, never wished music for a livelihood, did not have concert aspirations, and the accolades came to her only recently, much after she retired from an active life in music. Yet, she had not one but two illustrious musical careers: the first as a disciple of the late Ganasaraswati Kishori Amonkar, and the second as a Guru to me and several other disciples, who are concert artists or Gurus in their own right today.', 'My third Guru, the late Pandit Ratnakar Pai was recognised as a gifted artist from his early teens. Though he was looked up to as an upcoming concert artist, he chose not to depend on his concert performances as his source of livelihood. He preferred and retired from an accounting job from Forbes, Forbes and Campbell. Yet, his contribution to music in training his disciples and carrying forward the authentic lineage of his Gharana is immense.', 'I must have been five years of age when my lessons with Datar guruji began. I was growing up listening to regular riyaz of all elders at home, but none of them even hinted at the prospect of learning music in order to make a career out of it. We learnt music because it was good. What I did of my music taalim was left for me to decide when needed. I had started performing as a yuva kalakar right since my college days. But as is well known to many of you, I completed my conventional education doing rigorous scientific research and earning a Ph.D. in biochemistry. I even taught in the Ruia College for one year before I decided to pursue music fulltime. Even that decision was not with a definitive career as a performer in sight. It happened as part of my pursuit of music. It helped that my family was well settled and that my husband had a steady job.', 'Were there difficulties in this journey? Yes certainly. Everybody faces them and these life experiences ultimately shape the artist and her art. But I always had a supportive family and I believe that was one of the important, but unseen aspects of my musical career.', 'Are younger musicians of today better placed than when I was growing up as a young artist? I believe they are. Today’s young musicians are living in a much more liberal, open and generally healthier atmosphere.', 'They listen to each other, admire and respect each other, host each other and make collaborative contributions. Something I did not see growing up. We just had the AIR, Doordarshan and the press as media outlets but a fair amount of media time and print space for classical music. Today, there is a plethora of outlets in the electronic media, plenty of musicals therein but much less of classical music in the public media. There used to be many small music circles in different towns and cities who would host concerts, albeit with limited budgets, one hears less of them now. Instead today, social media outlets, recording studios and home recordings have multiplied, gadgets and technology have become cheaper and accessible. It is easier to record, promote, spread and sell music online now. Earlier, a recording label had to spot you and record your music. Then, you had to compete with stalwarts equivalent of your gurus for display space in music stores! Today, outside of the musical sphere, career opportunities in the overall economy have diversified significantly. If you have skills, it is easier to pursue a parallel career and your music.', 'The great Marathi literary personality, thespian, musician, film actor the late Pu. La. Deshpande once very beautifully commented on the career opportunities for artistes. “Let me tell you a secret that I discovered in life. Do get educated in the subjects and trained in the skills that provide you a livelihood. Work hard in your career and earn your living.', 'Upa-jeevika means livelihood in Marathi. Pu La had said that it is upa or subsidiary. What matters is the Jeevika. Make music your Jeevika and the rest will fall in place.', 'I have tried to follow his advice all my life and to understand the meaning of Jeevika for myself.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The tabla that spoke
['The audience seemed to vanish for the six musicians on stage, as they played for the Guruttama concert, organised by Shakti Foundation at The Music Academy, for charity. Instead, they had eyes only for each other on stage, as if caught up in intense conversation, in a language only they are privy to.', 'On the keyboard was Stephen Devassy, who incidentally, turned 38 that day. Taking care of the strings were lead guitarist Dominique Di Piazza, bass guitarist Mathias Muller, representing the jazz and blues front, while Abhijit Nair played the Carnatic violin. On percussion were Rodney Holmes with the drums, and tabla player Bickram Ghosh.', 'Dressed in all-white, the jazz quartet of Stephen, Dominique, Mathias and Rodney jumped right into it with a composition by Mathias. Rodney shone in this, as a powerhouse of a drummer. In the following piece, the four were relentless, the apparent lack of silence bringing in a sense of urgency.', 'However, the true magic happened when Abhijit and Bickram joined the four, in a fusion of Jazz, Blues, Carnatic and Hindustani. The set list, curated by Raju Rajamani, comprised iconic guitarist John McLaughlin’s ‘Little Miss Valley’, a fun Blues riff, the fusion ‘Ahimsa’, that sounded Indian, though it had been composed by Mathias, and mandolin legend U Srinivas’ Indian version of ‘River Song’, in raag Des.', 'The ‘River Song’, meditative and soothing in its use of the violin, was a tribute to the late Velan Raghuvir, founder of Shakti Foundation. It was moving to see Stephen lose himself in this piece, with closed eyes and a face scrunched up in passion. The song flowed as gently as the river it is named after.', 'Bringing the madness back, however, was Zinc, a composition by Bickram Ghosh, which literally, put the spotlight back on percussion. Though the drums and the tabla provided steady support to the strings and the keys throughout, it was here that they got to show off their skills. The hook line, incidentally, sounded like James Bond readying for a mission.', 'Bickram and Rodney’s jugalbandi embodied a friendly ‘music-off’ between the East and the West; as the tabla and the drums tried to best the other. “You may have seen drums and bass, but now you’ll see drums and face,” joked Bickram, as he proceeded to alternate beats on his tabla, chest and cheeks, turning his entire body into an instrument.', 'The six came together once more for the final song: a conversation of sorts, where each player got his monologue. The solos became shorter — down to a single note — and more light-hearted, with each round. And so, the musical baton passed around, ending in a storm of collective music — a fitting tribute to Shakti Foundation’s idea that a supportive group amplifies individual beauty.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Excellent Phoenix rises to the occasion
['Excellent Phoenix (Dhebe up) won the Waterfalls Plate (1,400m), the feature of the races here on Tuesday (Feb. 26). The winner is the property of Mrs. S. Prema and trained by A. Malick.', 'Jackpot: ₹20,0485 (C/o on 3rd leg), Mini jackpot: 22,353 (two tkts), Treble (1): 48,767 (one tkt.), (ii): 746 (81 tkts.).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Mariachi, Sahara, Sea Of Cortez, Electra, Blue Moon and Smile Stone shine
['Camila (T.S. Jodha) 1-7, 600/40. Strode out well.', 'Prevalent Force (R. Pradeep) 41.5. Pleased. Play Safe (Ashok) 46. Easy. Inky Black (S. Shareef) 41.5. Impressed.', 'Star Cracker (Rajesh B) 1-12.5, 600/42. Pleased. Blue Moon (T.S. Jodha) 1-10.5, 600/41.5. Moved attractively. Mariachi (Nazerul) 1-11, 600/40.5. A fine display. Cosmic Feeling (T.S. Jodha) 1-13.5, 600/42. Strode out well. Smile Stone (Mark), Naazaan (M. Naveen) 1-11.5, 600/41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Set To Win (Irvan) 1-16, 600/43. Moved freely.', 'Electra (T.S. Jodha), Sea Of Cortez (Nazerul) 1-26.5, 1,000/1-11, 600/41. They moved fluently. Regal Force (Ganesh) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-9, 600/44. Moved impressively. Side Winder (rb) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-10, 600/44.5. Shaped well. Sahara (Nazerul) 1-30, 1,000/1-13, 600/40.5. A pleasing display.', 'Psychic Force (R. Pradeep) 1-45, 1,200/1-29.5, 1,000/1-14.5, 600/43. In fine trim.', "Palm Reader (S. Shareef), Donna Bella (Anjar) 1-23.5, (1,200-600) 40. Former finished four lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Arazan - Star Angel) (Darshan), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Sinead Of Aglish) (Adarsh), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Inspiration) (rb) 1-21, (1,200-600) 40.5. First named impressed. Tio Rico (rb), Wonderlust (rb) 1-20.5, (1,200-600) 39.5. Former showed out. War Hero (T.S. Jodha), Dontbreaktherules (Nazerul) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 38. Former finished distance ahead. Extremelydangerous (rb), Blackhawk (P. Mani) 1-27, (1,200-600) 42. They jumped out well. Akasi (rb), Country's Jewel (Raghu) 1-25, (1,200-600) 42. They took a good jump and finished level. Southern Power (R. Ravi), Queen Regnant (Ashok) 1-26.5, (1,200-600) 43. Former finished six lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Juniper - Secret Love) (Surya), Don Dela Vega (rb) 1-25, (1,200-600) 41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Song And Dance (D. Patel), Skiathos (Nazerul) 1-32, (1,200-600) 47.5. They finished level. Fresh Start (Irvan), Louisiana (T.S. Jodha) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 40.5. Former finished three lengths ahead.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


El Comandante and Captain Courage show out
['El Comandante and Captain Courage showed out when the horses were exercised here on Tuesday (Feb. 26) morning.', 'Faldo (Jethu) 51, 600/37. Moved well. Beshiktash (Parbat) 50, 600/37. Pleased.', 'Eyes For You (Downey) 1-5, 800/52, 600/39. Moved attractively.', 'El Comandante (A.Gaikwad) 1-18, 1000/1-4, 800/51, 600/38. Maintains winning form. Captain Courage (A. Gaikwad) 1-20, 1000/1-7, 800/54, 600/41. Moved freely.', 'Bronx (B. Nikhil) 1-40, 600/43. Good. Eagleinthesky (Akshay), Smasher (Parmar) 1-39, 1200/1-24, 1000/1-9, 800/55, 600/40.5. Both were easy.', 'Sacred Roman (Kharadi) 2-3, 1600/1-49, 1400/1-35, 1200/1-21, 1000/1-7, 800/53, 600/39. Worked well.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Knight In Armour fancied
['Knight In Armour has an edge in the Waterfalls Plate (1,400m), the feature of the races to be held here on Tuesday (Feb 26).', 'Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4 (ii): 5, 6 & 7.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Early onset of heatwave mayresult in erratic monsoon this year’
['Intense cyclonic storms are on the cards, says JAMSTEC scientist Swadhin Behara.', 'The early onset of heatwave conditions this year may result in a delayed and erratic monsoon in India, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) scientist Swadhin Behara has said.', 'Referring to climate change, Mr. Behara attributed it to the rise in the ocean temperature.', 'Explaining about the connection between the ocean temperature and climate, Mr. Behara said warming of oceans would lead to more intense cyclonic storms of category 4 and 5, rather than a prolonged monsoon season.', 'Over the last five decades, he said, the oceans have absorbed more then 80% of the global heat, impacting the ice in the poles. “The Arctic region is already bearing the brunt. We must cut the emission of green house gases before the Antarctic comes under its impact,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Solar energy has just become more expensive for many sections
['The number of organisations and individuals relying on the sunshine to minimise their monthly power bills is increasing by the day, but phase-II of Grid-Connected Rooftop Solar (RTS) programme approved by the Centre might take the smiles off their faces.', 'It has withdrawn the Central Financial Assistance (CFA) for categories such as institutional, educational, social, government, commercial and industrial among others.', 'The CFA for the residential sector has also been restructured with availability of 40% financial support from the Centre for rooftop systems up to 3 kw capacity and 20% for a project with a capacity beyond 3 kw and up to 10 kw. However, the only relieving factor is that the new policy comes into effect from April 1, giving a month’s time for those aspiring to buy a subsidised rooftop solar panel project.', 'Nearly 14 colleges in Krishna district have opted for rooftop solar projects to save on their power bills. They include V.R. Siddhartha Engineering College, P.V.P. Siddhartha Institute of Technology, NRI College, Usha Rama College, Siddhartha Medical College, Lakkireddy Balreddy Engineering College, Loyola College, Stella College, Happy Valley Institute and Viswa Bharathi.', 'The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved the Phase II programme that envisages achieving cumulative capacity of 40,000 MW from rooftop solar projects by 2022. The programme will be implemented with Central financial support of ₹11.814 crore.', 'This phase lays focus on increased involvement of DISCOMs.', 'Performance-based incentives will be provided to them based on RTS capacity achieved in a financial year above the base capacity, i.e. cumulative capacity achieved at the end of the previous financial year.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


3.7 crore voters on final  rolls in State
['Andhra Pradesh has 3,69,33,091 voters as per the final electoral rolls dated January 11, including 1,83,24,588 men, 1,86,04,742 women and 3,761 transgenders, according to an official release.', 'East Godavari (E.G.) has the highest number of voters at 40,13,770 comprising 19,94,639 men, 20,18,747 women and 384 transgenders.', 'Vizianagaram district has the lowest of 17,33,667 including 8,58,327 men, 8,75,222 women and 118 transgenders.', 'Chandragiri constituency in Chittoor district has the highest number of voters at 2,70,495 and Narsapuram in West Godavari the lowest 1,59,144.', 'E.G. district has the highest number of constituencies at 19 and Vizianagaram the lowest at nine.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Vakapalli trial resumes
['The second phase trial of the ongoing Vakapalli gang-rape case began here at the Special Court for SC, ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act Cases, on Monday.', 'The first phase was held from February 5 to 12, but during the schedule the hearing for February 11 and 12, had to be adjourned. The second schedule is from February 25 to March 1.', 'On Monday, two prosecution witnesses Korra Domanaiah, a village elder of Vakapalli, and the then BSP MLA Lakke Raja Rao were deposed. While Mr. Domanaiah was cross-examined by the defence lawyer, Mr. Raja Rao’s cross-examination will take place on Tuesday.', 'During the schedule from February 5 to 12, eight of nine surviving victims were deposed and also cross-examined.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Oceans have direct role in climate change’
['Flag Officer Commanding in Chief of Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Karambir Singh speaking at the inaugural session in Visakhapatnam on Monday.', 'About 71% of of the earth’s surface is covered with water and in that cover oceans hold about 96.5% of the total water cover and keeping that in mind, the health of the oceans plays a vital role in the overall impact on climate.', 'This was the general observation by the experts at the inaugural session of the three-day second World Ocean Science Congress (WOCS) that began here at Andhra University on Monday.', 'All the experts were of the opinion that it was time for all stakeholders to come together to a common consensus to stop the degradation of the oceans and work towards a better future, as oceans have a direct role in climate change.', 'Union Minister Suresh Prabhu addressed the gathering through video conference.', 'Speaking on the occasion at the inaugural session, Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Shipyard Limited Rear Admiral L.V. Sarat Babu said ship building and shipping is one among the stakeholders and has an important role to play.', 'According to him, discharge of ballast water from ships is a major issue, as discharging of untreated water leads to transfer of invasive microorganisms from one region to another.', 'According to him, capping on sulphur emission by ships is another area that needs to be looked into. “The present norm is 3.5% and IMO has already passed a resolution that it should be reduced to 0.5% by October this year. About 70,000 transoceanic ships will have to change to new low-emission fuel or install scrubbers. Shipyards also have think of new methods of discharging their waste,” he said.', 'Flag-officer-Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command, Vice- Admiral Karambir Singh, in his address, pointed out that India has a rich maritime history and the focus should now be on modernising the fishing fleet, modern technology to explore seabed resources, enhance the efficiency of ports, new and green technology for seabed mining and bring out a common agenda for national maritime conservation.', 'Earlier, Secretary General WOCS Dr. S. Prasanna Kumar welcomed the delegates.', 'Prof. S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna, secretary, organising committee, said that 500 delegates, including 20 experts from foreign countries, and over 300 scientists and researchers and 300 students are attending the three-day meet. According to him, 107 scientific papers and 160 papers by students, including 30 concept papers, will be presented.', 'Chairman WOCS Dr. VN Sanjeevan, Vice-Chancellor of AU Prof. G. Nageswara Rao, Director Vigyan Prasar Dr. Nakul Parashar, National Organising Secretary of Vijnana Bharathi Jayant Sahasrabuddhe and State president of Vijnana Bharathi Prof. P.S. Avadhani spoke.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Naidu gives an earful to Cabinet colleagues
['As the political climate is hotting up with the fast-approaching general elections, TDP national president and Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu on Monday expressed displeasure over ‘lackadaisical attitude’ of his Cabinet colleagues to the political developments.', 'Mr. Naidu, without mincing words, pointed out that the Ministers were ‘indifferent’ to the allegations being levelled by the Opposition parties. “Except me, nobody is reacting to the allegations and criticism. The Ministers are miserably failing in countering the arguments and theories,” he said.', 'The Chief Minister’s comments came in the wake of ‘poor response’ from the Ministers to Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao (KTR)’s remarks that the YSRCP would come to power in Andhra Pradesh and its president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would become next Chief Minister.', 'TDP response’, Mr. Naidu cautioned his colleagues that there was an impending danger that the people would believe what the Opposition parties were speaking was true.', 'The functioning of the Ministers was under scrutiny. “Why did the Ministers fail to respond to KTR’s criticism?” he asked rather angrily.', 'The TDP supremo said a pre-poll alliance at the national level was being formed to avoid technical glitches post elections. A meeting of the non-BJP parties was scheduled on February 28, he said.', 'Mr. Naidu, however, reiterated that the TDP would not strike an alliance with the Congress in the State.', 'It would also not contest the MLC elections this time and the party leaders should not interfere in them, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Toll in  ‘industrial spirit’ tragedy rises to seven
['Shell-shocked: Relatives of the victims wailing outside the KGH mortuary in Visakhapatnam.', 'The toll in the suspected industrial spirit consumption tragedy in Visakhapatnam rose to seven with four more people including three women succumbing to it while undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital early on Monday.', 'Three persons including a woman died and 13 people were hospitalised after they consumed the spirit found in a garbage dump presuming it to be locally brewed arrack at the Uppara Colony (ST Colony) and Swatantra Nagar of Pedagantyada Mandal under the Gajuwaka police station limits on Sunday.', 'The deceased were identified as Pindri Appalamma (70), Asanala Kondayya (60), Vadapalli Appanna alias Appadu (65), Asanala Chinna Rao (58), Asanala Ramanamma (59), Vadapalli Anakamma (65) and Asanala Ravanamma, said DCP (South Zone) Adnan Nayeem Asmi.', 'They were being given special care at the nephrology ward with haemodialysis and other supportive care. Their condition was being monitored round-the-clock, said superintendent of the KGH Dr G. Arjuna.', 'He told the media that they had received a chemical analysis report from the Regional Chemical Laboratory of Prohibition and Excise Department which said the liquid was methyl alcohol (Methanol).', 'Dr. Arjuna said methanol was a type of alcohol but not meant for human consumption and was highly toxic. The police registered a case of suspicious deaths (under Section 174 of CrPC).', 'Mild tension prevailed at the mortuary in the KGH as relatives and the Left parties had staged dharna demanding compensation. They met Collector K. Bhaskar seeking compensation of ₹20 lakh for the family members of each victim.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


200 YSRCP activists arrested in Chittoor
['As many as 200 YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) activists were arrested on Monday while staging a dharna in front of the Satyavedu police station in the district demanding the release of Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, who was arrested on Sunday night for protesting against the arrest of four party activists earlier.', 'According to informed sources, four YSRCP activists - Naresh Reddy, Chennakesava Reddy, Munikrishna Reddy and Prakash Reddy- had allegedly manhandled two persons who were carrying tablets for conducting a poll survey on Sunday evening, accusing them of “deleting names of party sympathisers” from the voters’ list.', 'Based on a complaint of the duo, Lokesh and Parandama, the Pakala police arrested the four activists under sections 341, 392, 365 and 506 of the CrPC and shifted them to Chittoor for questioning.', 'Reacting to the arrest, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy staged a protest with party activists at the District Training Centre that led to a traffic jam. The MLA was arrested under section 151 of the CrPC [Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences] and was shifted to the Satyavedu police station.', 'He alleged the police were shielding TDP activists, allegedly involved in deleting the names. He said the party MLAs from the district would approach the Election Commission over the police’s alleged harassment of party activists.', 'Meanwhile, the four arrested YSRCP activists were produced before the Pakala court on Monday and sent to judicial remand for 15 days.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Automation in micro irrigation will help boost sugarcane yield’
['Embracing tech: A team of APMIC scientists installing an automation unit at a sugarcane field in Chittoor district.', 'The Andhra Pradesh Micro Irrigation Project (APMIC) is making efforts to increase sugarcane yield to 160 tonnes per acre in the Chittoor district in a year by introducing automation in micro irrigation methods.', 'An APMIC team, led by its project director Y. Vidya Shankar, held an awareness camp at the weekend involving a demonstration of automation machines, to be attached to pipes and drips, for 200 farmers from eastern mandals at Krishna Ramapuram village of Nindra mandal.', 'Mr. Shankar said the method would help regulate water flow to crops, maintain soil fertility and supply adequate amount of fertilizer to crops. The APMIC aimed at reaching the yield on a par with Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.', 'He sought farmers to contact the APMIC district office in Chittoor for assistance in setting up of equipment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Groupism in Telugu Desam to the fore
['Factionalism within the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) surfaced on Monday with Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy inaugurating the Ram Nagar road overbridge (RoB) here without allegedly recognising the presence of Anantapur MLA Vaikuntam Prabhakar Chowdary and Mayor Madamanchi Swaroopa at the venue.', 'While the Mayor and the MLA were waiting at the venue for Mr. Reddy and Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao to arrive, the Anantapur MP upon reaching there surprised everyone by getting down from his vehicle and asking the priest to start the puja without allegedly inviting others. He unveiled the plaque, cut the ribbon and walked on the overbridge in the same fashion.', 'Ms. Swaroopa took objection to the MP’s not respecting the protocol of having locals leaders take part in inaugurating a project. She blamed government officials for the confusion. When Mr. Chowdary, waiting under a tent, came to know the inauguration was over, he left the venue with corporators and supporters.', 'As a justification, Mr. Reddy said he had procured funds for the project and it was for other leaders to attend the function or not. Ms. Swaroopa said it was ridiculous not to involve either the Mayor or Anantapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials, who had helped with land acquisition for the project.', 'Calling upon the party high command to take notice of the incident, Mr. Chowdary said since he did not want any untoward incident by questioning the MP, he left the venue.', 'The MP and MLA have been at loggerheads with each other for the past five years and have clashed over various issues in the past.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Mr. & Ms. Rowdy’ review: An outdated adventure
['Even with his muscle mass and moustache, Kalidasan fails to morph into a ruffian. He is often like an adolescent trapped in an adult body and the same dissonance is there in his expressions. While Aparna Balamurali repeats herself as the street-smart lead lady, Appu’s gang — the foursome — is a case study in bad comedy. You don’t also find the technical part engaging, mainly because of the air of ennui and antiquity. They call it a comedy, but it seems this time the joke is on the audience.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Four stranded fishermen rescued
['Back home: Coast Guard Deputy Commandant Utkarsh along with his colleagues and the four rescued fishermen at the Thengaithittu fishing harbour on Monday.', 'The Indian Coast Guard on Monday rescued a fishing boat and four fishermen on board the vessel after it developed a snag and was adrift in the sea.', 'K. Manikandan, Raja, Ramu and M. Manikandan of Veerampattinam coastal hamlet had set out for fishing on a mechanised boat at around 4 p.m. from the Thengaithittu fishing harbour on Sunday.', 'They were fishing off the Bommayarpalayam coast when the boat developed a snag. The fishermen informed their relatives in Veerampattinam who alerted the Indian Coast Guard station here.', 'A Coast Guard interceptor ship, headed by Deputy Commandant Utkarsh, located the vessel off the Bommayarpalayam coast. Though the Coast Guard personnel tried to repair the engine, the efforts proved futile.', 'The boat was towed to the Thengaithittu fishing harbour at around 3 p.m. on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Assembly to reconvene for one-day session
['AIADMK has been demanding a full Budget for the U.T.', 'With the announcement of Lok Sabha elections imminent, the government has reconvened the Assembly for a day’s session on Saturday.', 'Whether it is election year or not, it had become a practice for successive governments to run the administration in the first few months of the financial year with an interim Budget. The vote-on-account is a special provision given to the government to obtain the consent of the legislature to seek expenditure sanction for a few months where the incumbent government could not present a full budget due to elections.The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had come out against the government for not presenting a full budget when neighbouring States had passed a full Budget.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Plastic ban yet to be notified
['With just two days left for the ban on single use plastic items to come into force, the government is yet to issue a notification barring the sale and manufacture of the material in the Union Territory from March 1.', 'The Cabinet, on January 13, decided to ban manufacture, sale and storage of single-use plastics such as plastic carry bags, plates, disposable cups, sheets, straw, expanded polystyrene foam (popularly known as thermocol) and water pouches in the Union Territory from March 1.', 'After the government announced the decision, the Puducherry Pollution Control Committee had invited representations from the public on the issue.', 'According to officials in PPCC, around 3,000 representations, including those from residents’ associations and people working in plastic industry units, were received.', 'After incorporating the diverse views received from public, the PPCC had submitted the draft notification to the government for its approval a few days ago.', 'While residents’ associations have welcomed the government decision to ban single use plastics, the manufactures’ association had sought relaxation in rules as they supplied the items to States such as Kerala and Karnataka, where the ban was not in force.', 'The association had argued that the ban would render hundreds of people jobless.', 'Soon after the Cabinet decision was announced, several retail outlets, including hotels, had started providing alternative packaging material such as paper bags and cloth bags to their customers.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Power shutdown
['Power supply will be suspended from 10 a.m to 2 p.m on Tuesday at Pitchaveeranpet, Dr Radhakrishnan Nagar, Thiru Nagar, Adikesevan Nagar, Paris Nagar, Gopalankadai, Muthupillaipalayam, Aziz Nagar, Sathiya Sai Nagar, Pavazhakaranchavady, Jawahar Nagar, Pavanar Nagar, Boomianpet Nagar, Golden Avenue, Arul Nagar,Siva Nagar, Boomianpet Housing Board, Ragavendra Nagar, Sudhakar Nagar, Pon Nagar, Jaya Nagar, Pudu Nagar, Cauvery Nagar, Moogambigai Nagar, Reddiarpalayam and surrounding areas.', 'Consumers are requested to register their mobile number at the respective Operation and Maintenance Office for SMS alert on power interruption in their areas, Electricity Department said in a release.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Efforts on to recruit specialists at Karaikal GH’
['While there is adequate supply of life-saving medicines and equipment in the Government General Hospital in Karaikal, the government is making every effort to post adequate specialist doctors, K. V. Raman, Director of Health, has said.', 'In a statement issued in the wake of the Karai Siragugal Iyakkam from Karaikal staging a protest recently demanding, among other things, uninterrupted supply of medicines and sanction of new equipment at the Karaikal hospital, Dr. Raman said that over the past decade, Health Department had been under tremendous pressure because of non-availability of sufficient number of specialists.', 'Even specialists selected by the UPSC preferred Puducherry as a place of posting. To overcome the issue, the department has created some specialists posts under Puducherry State Health Mission and taken steps to recruit suitable specialists. However, the response had been poor when it invited applications. An arrangement of weekly visits of specialists of Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Post Graduate Institute to Karaikal has been arranged to address the super speciality needs, Dr. Raman added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Mobile book exhibition flagged off to rope in young readers
['Fully stocked: Children visiting NBT’s mobile book exhibition stationed at Indira Nagar on Monday.', 'In an initiative aimed at inculcating reading habit in children, the National Book Trust launched a mobile book exhibition across Puducherry.', 'Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud flagged off the mobile exhibition at the Block Resource Centre at Indira Nagar on Monday. The mobile book exhibition will cover rural areas of Puducherry and Karaikal from February 25 to March 8. The exhibition has been a part of the National Book Festival by NBT to celebrate its 60 years. The mobile book exhibition will be stationed at various places across Puducherry till March 4.', 'The van will be stationed at the Beach Road on March 3 from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. The exhibition will then move to the Karaikal region from March 5 to 8.', 'The Education Department has released library grants for all government schools in the Union Territory. Headmasters and teachers can buy books in the mobile exhibition organised by NBT to encourage reading habit among children. A discount of 25% will be offered on each purchase.', 'The exhibition includes a variety of children’s literature, short stories and reading materials, Mr. Goud said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Indian Ocean is a high focus region in global trade: experts
['Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh and dignitaries release the book Blue Economy of India: Emerging Trends during the conference at Pondicherry University.', 'The geo-political and geo-economic power shift from the west to east raises new challenges in the Indian Ocean Region and international relations, said experts who spoke at a recent two-day international conference hosted by the UGC Centre for Maritime Studies in Pondicherry University.', 'Addressing those attending at the event ‘Indo-Pacific: Emerging Dynamics’, Subramanyam Raju, coordinator of the UGC Centre, pointed to the growing importance of this power shift.', 'The Indian Ocean Region was now the high focus region and currently, the Indo-Pacific accounts for 40% of global trade and 62% of the world’s GDP, he said.', 'In this context, he envisaged a greater role for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS-3), which has laid out the principle that the high seas was a shared asset while demarcating and designating legal status of other maritime zones such as internal waters, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. Earlier, inaugurating the meet, Rajiv Bhatia, former Ambassador to Mexico, split up the chronology of maritime power into three parts: the 1950’s to 80’s which was dominated by the European countries; 1980’s to 90’s by West Asia and the 21st century which is confined to the Indian Ocean Region.', 'He also underscored the need for calibrating India’s approach in tune with the developments in the Indo-Pacific Region. In his presidential address, Prof. Gurmeet Singh, Pondicherry University Vice-Chancellor, stressed the importance of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and why China should not be ignored if India has to move forward.', 'P.V. Rao, National Fellow, Indian council of Social Science Research, New Delhi, called for scaling up connectivity for the prosperity of the region.', 'Prof. Rao also spoke of India’s ‘Act East Policy’ and the changed dynamic where New Delhi was now being called as a major partner rather than a member or observer State.', 'Among the international delegates at the conference were Sam Bateman from Australia and Tomasz Lukaszuk from Poland.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Experts throw light on investment avenues in capital markets
['The investment avenues available in capital markets and their benefits were the focus of a recent investor awareness programme hosted by Indbank Merchant Banking Services Ltd, a subsidiary of Indian Bank, in association with National Securities Depository Limited.', 'The seminar also sought to raise awareness about keeping securities in dematerialised (demat) form.', 'Valliappan Nagappan, Director, MSEFSL explained to the participants the concept of ‘equity as a part of asset allocation’.', 'While detailing the investment options available in India, he also focused on the advantages of investing in stock markets.', 'Bandam Srinivas, Assistant Vice President, NSDL, spoke about the depositories in India and advantages of holding securities in electronic form.', 'Sesha Sai P. L. V. K., President and Whole Time Director, Indbank, laid out the benefits of investing in capital markets and the importance of starting investments early.', 'K. S. Sujay, vice president, Indbank, also spoke on the occasion.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CPI(M) wants Chief Electoral Officer shifted
['The Communist Party of India(M) has urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to transfer the Chief Electoral Officer V. Candavelou as he had been serving in the same capacity for more than three years.', 'In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Election Commissioner, R. Rajangam, secretary of the Puducherry unit of CPI(M), said the ECI had directed the chief secretaries of all States and union territories to transfer officers working in their home districts for more than three years to other departments.', 'Even though a month has lapsed since the direction was issued, the Secretary to Government (Finance) in the Union Territory, V. Candavelou, who is also the Chief Electoral Officer was continuing in the same post for over three years.', 'Mr. Rajangam said that Mr. Candavelou should be shifted from the post of CEO to ensure free and fair election in the Union Territory.', 'The Election Commission should direct the Chief Secretary to shift the officer without further loss of time, he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Stalker found hanging from tree
['Two days after S. Ramya, a 23-year-old teacher, was stabbed to death by a 24-year-old man, who had been stalking her for over a year, the accused, K. Rajasekar, was found hanging from a tree in a cashew orchard in Thoppayankulam near Thirunavalur in Villupuram district on Sunday.', 'According to the police, the accused, who had professed his love to Ramya, entered the classroom and attacked her with a knife.', 'It was Shanthi, a sanitary worker, who saw the victim lying in a pool of blood and alerted the school correspondent, V. Rangarajan, who was on the first floor.', 'On being informed, the police rushed to the spot and sent the body for post-mortem to the Kurunjipadi Government Hospital.', 'Rajasekar had been absconding after the incident and the police were trying to nab him based on CCTV footage from cameras installed at two places near the school.', 'Police sources said Rajasekar had last called his sister on Friday evening and threatened that he was going to commit suicide before switching off his mobile phone. On Sunday, locals in Thoppayankulam alerted the Thirunavalur police about a bike parked near the cashew orchard.', 'A police team rushed to the orchard and found Rajasekar hanging from a tree. The body was retrieved and sent for post-mortem. Further investigations are on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


3rd indoor rowing meet held in Puducherry
['As many as 200 rowers from 22 States participated in the 3rd indoor rowing competition held near the Gandhi Statue recently.', "Unlike the outdoor game which is held in waterbodies, in the indoor regatta the rower sits on a machine and rows. It's done on ergometers which stimulate rowing actions.", 'The software connected to the machine will help display the rowers speed on a giant screen, said Balaji Maradapa, treasurer of Rowing Federation of India.', 'The Union Territory is the new entrant to rowing sports. The indoor event too was getting encouraging support.', 'The Pondicherry Rowing Association was in touch with the Tourism Department and Municipal authorities to have a permanent facility at Chunnambar beach, he said.', 'The setting up of the facility at Chunnambar could attract more tourists to the beach, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Learning to fight the various forms of fear
['Fear, its many manifestations — from the subconscious to the generational — and the ways to overcome it was the focus of a recent workshop at the Mohanam Village Heritage Centre in Auroville.', 'During the over two-hour hands-on workshop titled ‘Abhayadan - Gift of Fearlessness; Freedom from Fear’, Prof. Kumar discussed the various kinds of fear that humans face as well as the numerous methods to address them.', 'With examples, Prof. Kumar made participants aware of the various kinds of individual and collective fear we face as a humanity, especially the ones faced in this digital age.', 'Of the many fears that lurk in our subconscious, the professor pointed out the dominant ones as ‘fear of loneliness’, ‘fear of disappointing - honour, shame and guilt’, ‘fear of losing face’, ‘fear of disclosing secrets and lies’, ‘fear of not being loved or misunderstood’, ‘fear faced by the LGBT community’ and so on.', 'Pointing to how the United Kingdom had recently set up a Ministry of Loneliness, he said this was done out of a compulsion as the State was losing millions of pounds supporting people who were lonely. It is estimated more than 9 million people in the country often or always feel lonely, according to a 2017 report published by the Jo Cox Commission on Loneliness. Besides, loneliness is associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, dementia, depression and anxiety. For instance, a huge population over the age of 60 in Japan is also facing acute loneliness as the country has the oldest population in the world.', "The phenomenon was so widespread that the word “FOMO” acronym for ‘fear of missing out’, was officially added to the Oxford Dictionary in 2013. FOMO describes that anxious feeling that can arise ‘when you feel there is a more exciting prospect that is happening elsewhere — and unfortunately, you're not there’.", 'The professor also categorised fear in several sections: for instance, women face different kinds of fear than men; people over the age of 60 have their own agonies; and the young generation has to grapple with their own distinct kinds of maladies.', 'There are several collective or generational fears as well, the professor pointed out, which often lead to mistrust and even wars and construction of walls.', 'On the positive side, several communities and organisations were trying to address this malaise, Prof. Kumar noted. He suggested joining or forming a group, for example, a singing group. One need to look no farther than Auroville where a “Laughing Yoga” group had been started. The participants ranging in the age group of 25 to 65 and representing various states of India and countries such as Spain, the UK, Ireland and others shared their thoughts on fears that were unique to their situation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A song and dance of it
['Prema Rangachary was up at 5.00 am. The guests had started arriving. Dancers. Singers. Organisers from Chennai. Jutu, the school puppy, welcomed guests with what she believed was a fierce “don’t-move” growl. She was greeted with laughter and lots of petting.', 'This was the third edition of Svanubhava to be held in Vidya Vanam school in Anaikatti, 32 km from Coimbatore. On the morning of February 21, it felt less like a school; more like a family wedding.', 'Kali Veerapathiran’s troupe showcased the link between folk and classical dance forms. Bharatanatyam and Oyilattam; Kuchupudi and Karagattam; Odissi and Devarattam; Kathak and Thappattam. The performance was electrifying. For 15 minutes after the show, Kali was mobbed by selfie and photo requests.', 'Shivaji Rao’s troupe also left the kids gasping. The tricks — some daring, some deadly — probably resulted in a youthful comment on the feedback board outside the dining hall: “venom”. The rest appreciated the line-up, and children and visitors wrote with coloured pens, in beautiful cursive.', 'Bharathi Thirumagan’s Villupaattu group had the children clapping enthusiastically in accompaniment, often drowning the percussionists on stage. Her easy humour and rapport with her son who also sang alongside her were big hits.', 'The Badaga dance by Mahalinga Troupe got a rousing reception. The movements of the five male dancers, all dressed in white, were graceful and simple. The instruments — drums, rattle, trumpet and clarinet — cheerful and energetic. The troupe then invited the kids to dance along if they wished. The whole ‘floor’ came alive with hundreds of children dancing in circles, laughing, clapping and it felt like the FDFS of a Rajini movie.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


Dance studios are having a ball
['Doing a backflip is not difficult, it merely takes time and practise, says seven-year-old Mayank Manoj, with a toothy smile. He is one of the many students perfecting their backflip at Polestar Studio, Jawahar Nagar. Students of Sree Chitra Thirunal College of Engineering are in the next batch, all them swaying and foot-stomping to a hip-hop routine.', 'B-boying classes are in full swing at DR Crew’s studio at Vellayambalam. Ravikiran, a college student, is perfecting his “breaking routine” for a competition.', 'At BigFoot Dance Arena at Kuravankonam, Kevin Poulose, its founder-cum-choreographer, is working on a hip-hop routine with a group of students from Marian Engineering College.', 'The city is putting its best foot forward to swing to all kinds of music and dance crews and studios are mushrooming like never before. It is not just about cinematic dance. Hip-hop, b-boying, salsa, jive, contemporary, rap, and the always-popular Bollywood freestyle are some of the dance moves on offer.', 'And there are specialists too. DR Crew, for instance, specialises in b-boying, Polestar and BigFoot Arena in hip-hop and Rap Ruddys in popping. Aliyans, at Ulloor, is known for its mix of hip-hop with flips and jumps.', 'At present, right from toddlers to grandmas, anyone who can shake a leg, are turning up at the dance studios. Their motivation ranges from passion for dance and winning prizes at competitions to keeping themselves fit. “We have people in the 60s learning Bollywood freestyle. They enjoy the moves, you know?” says Myth of DR Crew.', 'Thanks to the proliferation and accessibility of social media, dance teachers have to be on their feet to keep up with their students. Sreejith Sivanandan of The BlackHood Ninjaz says as much: “Choreographers and dance teachers have their task cut out as the current generation is updated about different dance styles and its many versions. Hip-hop dance that evolved out of hip-hop culture has three main styles: breaking, locking and popping. But, later, several forms were derived from it, like jerking, turfing, krumping, urban, and several hybrids such as jazz-funk. To keep abreast of the latest trends, we ensure that we are not forced to go on the back foot, we teachers are forced to learn these styles. Improvisation is the name of the game. The youngsters have become so smart that they find a beat in between the beats and dance to it. Sreejith, a choreographer for the last 23 years, has many stage and reality shows to his credit, especially those on various channels and for Soorya.', 'Most of the dance studios are into teaching and performing at all kinds of shows, events and competitions. In fact, intensely fought dance competitions, which they call ‘battles’, have become a regular affair, with some of these contests happening outside the State, says Ratheesh Karunakaran of Polestar.', 'Some like BigFoot Arena focus only on teaching. “Our dancers lag behind those from other States when it comes to showcasing international dance forms. I started this space in the hope of bringing about a change and I am happy that it is happening slowly,” says Kevin, who decided not to hang up his dancing shoes after finishing his engineering course. In addition to hip-hop, his studio has classes in Bollywood and contemporary styles and will soon start sessions in classical dance.', 'The trend is to bring leading dancers to conduct workshops in different forms so that the studios are not caught on the wrong foot in the competition to gather and keep their students. DR Crew, for instance, brought Arif Chaudhary a.k.a. Flying Machine, India’s top b-boy for a workshop and to judge a ‘battle’ of the dancers. “Besides students of other dance schools in the city, we had participants from Chennai and Bengaluru to take part in the battle,” says Yanko (Vishnu Prasad), one of the key members of the studio.', 'BigFoot has five workshops to their credit: on breaking, house, hip-hop, krumping and whacking. Polestar brought in hip-hop legends C Mack a.k.a Kraig Evans from the United States and Raghu Master from Chennai last year for a “hip-hop and all-style workshop”. “We organised Tarantism Vol I, a one-on-one battle judged by these legends. The second edition to be held this year will be a much bigger event,” says Ratheesh.', 'At this time of the year, the choreographers and masters are on their feet to train college teams for annual cultural fetes organised by professional colleges. Sreejith has been teaching the team of College of Engineering Trivandrum for the last seven years. “We have to try new things every year. It was a big moment when they recently won at Saarang, the inter-college fete of IIT Madras,” he says.', 'Ratheesh has been training the team of SCT and judging several dance fetes. He adds: “Our focus is on originality, be it in mixing the tracks or in the steps.” These choreographers also have students from other districts in Kerala. Aliyans, for instance, has students coming from neighbouring States as well. “These are dancers who follow us on YouTube, mainly because of our daredevil moves,” believes Pratheesh Lal, founder of Aliyans. “Dance contests are prestigious events at these fetes and some colleges rope in professional choreographers,” points out Rajesh.', 'So, the stage is set. Turn up the volume for the dance floor!', 'Some of the dance troupes are going places with their proficiency on the dance floor. The nine-member crew of Polestar was chosen to represent India at two international hip-hop competitions, Hip Hop International and World of Dance, both in the United States. They also won at Breezer Vivid Shuffle, India’s largest hip-hop festival, and were featured in a music video with actor Varun Dhawan and rapper Raftaar.', 'Footloosers, perhaps the first dance studio in the city, was founded by five friends of Government Arts College: Babu (Santosh Kumar), Padmakumar, Praveen, Riyaz and Sajeesh, Babu’s brother. “Disco music was a rage then, so too songs of Michael Jackson, Metallica and Prince. But there were no videos to learn dance. Since I was trained to be a gymnast [because he wanted to become a stunt master in movies], I mixed acrobatic moves with dance moves we saw in different movies. People loved what they saw!” remembers Babu.', 'Their school, opened in 1987, was named Crimmers initially. “I don’t know why we named it so! Anyway we inspired many dancers to follow suit. It was later named Footloosers, inspired by the English song ‘Footloose’,” Babu says. Footloosers now have over a dozen branches across Kerala and one in Dubai. Meanwhile, Babu fulfilled his dream of becoming a stunt master in films. He has choreographed for movies in Malayalam and Tamil and has now turned a producer.', 'Trevolution is a hip-hop community started by Anand NC, an engineering graduate. “I wanted to promote unity among hip-hop dancers and showcase authentic hip-hop through battle series,” says the 22-year-old, better known as Zylent in the dance circles. Launched two years ago, its first major battle series held at Kanakakunnu, “sans any sponsors”, had 22 participants. “The number went up in the second edition and we had participants from other districts as well. Forty dancers battled it out in the third one,” he says.', 'He also runs Soul TV, a YouTube channel where he posts videos of hip-hop battles. “I want camaraderie among the dancers which is missing now. I am also hoping to collaborate with Indian Hip Hop Nation, a national-level hip-hop community,” he says.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


Finding yourself in Folk
['It is easier to list the countries that Shivaji Rao has not visited. ‘Japan, Canada, and some parts of West Asia.’ Everywhere else, he pointed out, he’s performed the folk dances of Tamil Nadu. “I’m a fourth-generation performer. I’ve been dancing since 1980 when I was 16 years old. Now I am 54. I was taught by my father. My first performance was an all-night show in a temple near Mayiladuthurai and I danced the kavadi,” he smiled, sitting cross legged in the makeshift green room in Vidya Vanam School, Anaikatti.', 'Shivaji is among a handful of full-time solo kavadi performers. He rates it as difficult as poikkal kuthirai or mayilattam and kaalaiattmam, all of which they will perform at Svanubhava. The folk art forms are on a decline as a livelihood because “earlier there was no other entertainment. But now everybody is peering into their cellphones.” What keeps the folk arts going are temple festivals in villages, private shows and government functions. “We left home at 11.00 pm last night to get here at 6.00 am well ahead of the performance,” he said with a yawn. “It takes one hour just to get the make-up and costume on for poikkal and half an hour to wind up after the show,” he added, as his father and mother opened their make-up boxes, while his brother and brothers-in-law unpacked the dummy horses, peacock and bull.', 'Once the troupe was ready, Shivaji accompanied the tavil and nadaswaram players on stage. The others made their entry one by one. First to appear and enchant the audience was the peacock, with its lavish and long tail feathers. The kids screamed in delight when it jumped into their midst and took away their school bags. The poikkal kuthirais are greeted with a rousing applause. Nadi Rao and Kamachi, Shivaji’s parents, are well into their 70s and danced wearing the heavy dummy horse, ankle bells and wooden stilts, all of which weigh over 50kg.', 'Shivaji, in white pyjamas and a vest, with a sequined purple wrap and gold sash laced the kavadi on the floor, prayed and circled it. In one swift movement, he spun it onto his shoulder and neck. The kids roared in approval, as he balanced it on his forehead, elbow, chest and abdomen and went on to perform daring tricks with needles, lemons and an eyelid. He then implored the applauding children not to try it at home.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


Trump-Kim summit in Vietnam: All the latest updates
['US and North Korean leaders to meet in Hanoi for high-stakes summit, eight months after landmark meeting in Singapore.', 'The June 2018 meeting produced a vague statement in which Kim and Trump outlined four commitments without an exact timeline: establishing "new relations" for peace and prosperity; building a "lasting and stable peace regime on the Korean Peninsula"; working "towards denuclearisation"; and recovering and repatriating the remains of soldiers killed during the 1950-1953 Korean War.', 'This time, the stakes appear to be higher amid growing expectations that the two leaders will need to make a more detailed agreement that will result in tangible progress.', "Pham Hong Hai, Vitenam's vice minister for information, launches a special postage stamp to commemorate the upcoming US-North Korea summit.", 'The stamp shows two hands in the colours of North Korea and the US clasped together.', 'Meanwhile, Nguyen Thu Uyen, a local student who handed Kim flowers on his arrival in Vietnam, tells AFP news agency it was his "most memorable" moment meeting the leader.', "Lu Kang, spokesperson for China's foreign ministry, says Beijing hopes talks between Trump and Kim will achieve denuclearisation and lasting peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and in northeast Asia.", 'To achieve those goals, North Korea and the US should fully understand each other\'s legitimate concerns and "meet each other halfway", Lu tells reporters in Beijing.', 'China believes the situation is "developing in the direction as we pursued and expected", adds Lu.', 'Accompanied by his sister Kim Yo Jong, Kim is paying a visit to the North Korean embassy in Hanoi.', "Hundreds of people are waiting to catch a look at the motorcade, as Kim travels the short distance from the Melia hotel to the embassy. Loud cheers go up as Trump enters the mission's compound.", 'After a 50-minute jaunt at the embassy, Kim returns to his hotel.', 'From Trump- or Kim-style haircuts to burgers named "Kim Jong Yum" and "Durty Donald", artists and businesses in Hanoi are hoping to showcase their skills and cash in on the second US-North Korea summit.', 'Duong Le Tuan, a barber, says more than 600 people have visited his salon since he began offering free cuts in the hairstyles of Trump and Kim a week ago.', "Trump's Air Force One, en route to the Vietnamese capital, Hanoi, has reportedly made a refuelling stop in Qatar.", 'The US president is due in the Vietnamese capital on Tuesday evening.', "The travelling US press corps covering Trump's Vietnam visit are asked to check out of Melia Hotel, in the heart of Hanoi, as it has also been booked by Kim for his stay in the Vietnamese capital.", "Vietnam's foreign ministry says the White House reporters, photographers and media workers are being relocated to an international media filing centre a few blocks away from the hotel.", "Soon after, Kim's motorcade rolls up to Melia Hotel.", 'The announcement of the last-minute switch prompts responses by US journalists on social media.', 'Translation: The US press is being booted out of the hotel where we have spent days setting up our workspace.', "South Korea's presidential spokesperson has expressed Seoul's hope for substantial progress at the upcoming summit.", 'The spokesperson also reiterates the possibility of the US and North Korea declaring a formal end to the 1950-1953 Korean War, a day after hinting at it for the first time.', "Kim's limousine rolls into Hanoi, passing outside the city's famed opera house just around the corner from the Metropole Hotel which is thought to be the summit venue.", 'Hundreds of citizens\xa0gather behind barricades hoping to catch a glimpse of the North Korean leader.', 'Melia Hotel, where Kim is set to stay.', "Pompeo, Trump's top envoy in his efforts to improve ties with North Korea, has made several trips to Pyongyang to negotiate steps towards ending its nuclear programme.", 'White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders tells reporters on Air Force One that\xa0Trump will meet Kim for a brief one-on-one conversation on Wednesday evening followed by a social dinner, at which they will each be accompanied by two guests and interpreters.', 'She says more meetings between the two leaders will take place on Thursday.', 'After a long train journey through North Korea and thousands of kilometres across China, Kim arrives at the Vietnamese border station of Dong Dang.', 'Top Vietnamese officials are on hand to receive him at the station with a red carpet, including a guard of honour, with the North Korean and Vietnamese flags hoisted high.', 'The North Korean leader steps into a black limousine surrounded by bodyguards who run alongside the vehicle as it leaves the station.', 'Roads are shut down from the border with China all the way to Hanoi, 170km away.', "With Kim on board a train crossing China towards Hanoi and Trump about to board a flight to Vietnam's capital, Vietnamese officials are scrambling to complete preparations for the much-anticipated summit.", 'Another official, Nguyen Manh Hung, the leader of the information ministry, said that the 3,000 journalists from 40 countries expected in Hanoi could rely on his agency as "you\'d count on a family member".', 'Can North Korea follow Vietnam to economic success?', "It's dynamic, open to the outside world and becoming richer fast - while being run by a single-party communist government.\xa0Vietnam's\xa0economy is being held up by the US as an example for\xa0North Korea\xa0to follow if it gives up its nuclear weapons.", 'But not everyone agrees that Kim could achieve what Vietnam has without giving up his tight grip on power.', 'Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov says Washington has asked Moscow for advice before the summit in Hanoi, according to Interfax.', 'The news agency quotes Lavrov as saying there is no quick solution to the Korean Peninsula issue, adding that the United Nations could have lifted some sanctions against Pyongyang that hamper relations between North Korea and South Korea.', 'Arrived in Hanoi, Vietnam, to this Trump-Kim craziness. Tshirts, flags and haircuts.', 'Officials and analysts predict future economic gains as Vietnam steps up preparations to host the second summit between the two leaders.', 'In a Twitter post, Trump says he is leaving early on Monday for the meeting in Hanoi, while also wondering: "Denuclearization?" He also says Kim knows that "without nuclear weapons, his country could fast become one of the great economic powers anywhere in the world".', 'Very productive talks yesterday with China on Trade. Will continue today! I will be leaving for Hanoi, Vietnam, early tomorrow for a Summit with Kim Jong Un of North Korea, where we both expect a continuation of the progress made at first Summit in Singapore. Denuclearization?', "Heading into this week's summit, Trump has said that North Korea has not tested any nuclear weapons in months and that as long as that testing has ceased, he is in no rush.", 'Is peace on the horizon between North and South Korea?', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Ukraine begins Poroshenko impeachment process
['Ukrainian president is accused of having knowledge of a criminal money laundering scheme involving the armed forces.', 'The move came a day after BIHUS.info, a Kiev-based investigative journalism unit, released the first two parts of a four-part report that implicated Poroshenko in a money laundering scandal involving top defence officials.', 'The BIHUS report revealed that "top officials of the defense industry" were receiving kickbacks for obtaining contraband military vehicle parts at inflated prices.', 'More controversially, many of those parts appear to have been smuggled in from Russia, according to the report.', "The report named Oleh Hladkovskyi, a member of Ukraine's National Security Council and a close friend of Poroshenko, as one of those involved in the scheme, as well as Hladkovskyi's son.", 'While Poroshenko has not been accused of direct involvement in the scheme, MPs and BIHUS have said he likely ignored the scheme to protect Hladkovskyi.', 'The president is yet to comment on the investigation or the impeachment proceedings, focusing instead on his campaign and events to mark the fifth anniversary of the Russian annexation of Crimea.', "A record 44 candidates are set to compete for the country's top seat, with recent polls showing comic actor Volodymyr Zelenskiy in the lead.", 'Poroshenko, who came to power in 2014, following waves of protests against then-President Viktor Yanukovich, is seeking re-election, though his prospects are expected to suffer as a result of the scandal.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Amnesty report on Middle East rights highlights Khashoggi case
['An Amnesty report looking at the state of human rights in the Middle East says the lack of international justice only emboldens authorities to crack down on their citizens and freedom of speech.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Now Labour backs a second Brexit referendum, will it happen?
['Now Labour backs a second Brexit referendum, will it happen?', 'With weeks to go until the Brexit deadline, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said he would support a new vote.', 'Nearly 52 percent of Britons voted to leave the EU in the 2016 referendum.', 'What did Corbyn say?', 'The Labour leader said the party would "put forward or back" an amendment supporting a people\'s vote should parliament fail to pass Labour\'s alternative plan, which will be put to a vote in the House of Commons this week.', 'The plan is likely to be defeated.', 'Why the shift?', 'Corbyn is trying to hold his party together.', "Nine Labour MPs have defected over the party's Brexit policy as well as alleged anti-Semitism. Eight joined a newly-formed Independent Group comprising both Labour and Conservative MPs. The group, which is opposed to leaving the EU without a deal and backs a second referendum, met for the first time on Monday.", 'To stem a rebellion within her party, May is also likely to promise MPs who are eager to rule out a no deal that they will have the chance to vote for a two-month extension of Article 50 in a fortnight, should she fail to reach a deal by then.', 'Meanwhile, the EU, which has been firm in its refusal to renegotiate the withdrawal agreement, signalled it is also eager to avoid a no deal, with European Council President Donald Tusk saying on Monday that "an extension would be a rational solution" in light of the current situation.', 'Labour MP Ben Bradshaw warned last week that the trickle of defecting MPs could "become a flood" if Corbyn failed to deliver on the party\'s conference policy for a second Brexit referendum.', "What was Labour's Brexit stance before?", "At the party's annual conference last autumn, Labour agreed to campaign for a people's vote should it fail to secure a general election.", 'But Corbyn lost his bid to remove May from power after the prime minister won a no-confidence vote, just a day after a resounding defeat on her Brexit deal in January.', "As the prime minister headed back to Brussels with a parliamentary mandate to renegotiate the agreement, Corbyn put forward Labour's five demands for Brexit.", "The Labour leader will put his Brexit plan to parliament this week by tabling an amendment to the PM's Brexit motion. The party also said it would support a proposal to delay Brexit if the prime minister can't get her deal approved by March 13.", 'The round of voting on March 12 is also when a possible referendum amendment is expected to be put forward.', 'Will there be a second referendum, and what would Britons be voting on?', 'In a briefing to its MPs on Monday, Labour said the options for a new referendum should allow voters to choose between a credible leave deal or remain.', 'The party would not support no deal as an option. However, these would ultimately have to be decided by parliament.', 'But even if Labour backs a second referendum, it is not clear that there is a parliament majority. There are more Labour MPs opposed to it, compared with Conservatives who support it. The Scottish National Party (SNP) and the Liberal Democrats would support a second vote.', 'Any plan for another referendum would require an official request to the EU to extend negotiations to make time for it to be organised - something the EU is likely to grant.', "But the shift could also push the hard Brexiteer, eurosceptic wing of the Conservative Party towards voting for May's deal, fearing that a long delay and the prospect of a new vote could mean reversing the result of the 2016 referendum.", "In short, it doesn't mean that a referendum is actually going to happen.", 'John Curtice, a politics professor at Strathclyde University and Senior Research Fellow at NatCen Social Research, told Al Jazeera.', 'If you have to get this through the House you have to make it more attractive to leave voters, and Labour have done the opposite," Curtice added.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


India bombs targets inside Pakistan
['India foreign secretary says jets hit Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Pakistan, but Islamabad denies casualties in air raids.', 'Hours later, speaking at an election rally in the western state of Rajasthan,\xa0Modi said "the country is in safe hands", avoiding direct reference to the air raids.', "Al Jazeera's Faiz Jamil, reporting from New Delhi, said that the Indian government has been under a lot of pressure to act in the wake of the Kashmir attack.", 'Indian Air Force violated Line of Control. Pakistan Air Force immediately scrambled. Indian aircrafts gone back. Details to follow.', 'Payload of hastily escaping Indian aircrafts fell in open.', 'A special meeting of the National Security Committee chaired by the Prime Minister Imran Khan was held at his office on Tuesday.', 'The meeting was attended by the ministers of foreign affairs, defence and finance, the chairman joint chiefs of staff committee and other civil and military officials.', 'Hassan Akbar, director at the Islamabad-based Jinnah Institute think-tank, termed the attacks "a very provocative and aggressive action by India".', 'Akbar said Pakistan\'s response could range from hitting Indian artillery positions along the Line of Control to taking "a more escalatory position" and launching similar airstrikes on Indian military targets.', 'The air attacks on Tuesday appear to have taken place outside of Kashmir, at least 10km inside the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.', "Pakistan's military did not confirm the location of the incident, offering conflicting reports that at first placed it near the town of Balakot, about 12km from Jaba, and later claimed it occurred within the confines of Pakistan-administered Kashmir.", 'Tensions between the South Asian neighbours have been high since February 14, when a suicide attacker killed at least 42 Indian security personnel in the Indian-administered Kashmir town of Pulwama.', 'Meanwhile, Indian security forces have conducted raids on the houses of four senior Kashmiri separatist leaders, including chief of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front Yasin Malik.', 'Kashmiri civilians say they have been seeing heavy troop deployment, fuel shortages and frequent Indian security forces raids since the Pulwama attack.', 'India has threatened Pakistan with military action repeatedly since the February 14 blast, blaming it for "controlling" the attack. Pakistan-based armed group JeM had claimed the attack.', 'Pakistan denies any role in the attack, and last week Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan asked India for "actionable intelligence" in order to take action against any JeM operatives in Pakistan.', 'Pakistan has dubbed it an act of aggression.', 'Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, speaking after the National Security Committee meeting, told reporters that the Indian incursion into Pakistani airspace lasted three minutes, beginning at 2.55am local time. He said that the aircraft remained near the LoC, and did not enter airspace outside of Kashmir.', 'Pakistan reserved "the right to a reasonable response and the right to self-defence".', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Celebrations, protests as India carries out air raids in Pakistan
["People across India come out on the streets as they celebrate India's attack avenging a suicide bombing in Kashmir.", 'People across Indian cities celebrated on Tuesday the air raids across the Line of Control (LoC) in Pakistan nearly two weeks after at least 42 Indian soldiers were killed in a suicide attack in Indian-administered Kashmir.', "India's foreign secretary said fighter jets targeted camps belonging to Pakistan-based armed group, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), which had claimed reponsibility for the deadly Kashmir attack.", 'The latest Indian action has added to the panic among Kashmiri civilians who have been affected by heavy troop deployment and fuel shortages since the suicide attack.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Israel ex-minister sentenced to 11 years for spying for Iran
['Gonen Segev, who was convicted in January, sentenced to 11 years in prison for spying for regional rival Iran.', 'Prosecutor Geula Cohen confirmed to journalists outside the Jerusalem court that the judge had accepted the plea bargain and issued the sentence.', 'Segev, energy minister from 1995 to 1996, was indicted in June. The Shin Bet internal security service said at the time that he was recruited by Iranian intelligence while living in Nigeria.', 'Investigators found that Segev made contact with officials at the Iranian embassy in Nigeria in 2012 and that he visited Iran twice for meetings with his handlers, the Shin Bet said.', 'Segev, who was extradited from Equatorial Guinea and arrested in May, was charged with providing Iran information about "energy market and security sites in Israel".', 'The ministry said there was a gag order on further details.', 'Segev served in the Labour government of former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin after defecting from the far right to cast the decisive vote in favour of the Oslo II peace agreement with the Palestinians.', 'Iran has accused Israel of sabotage and assassinations of scientists involved in its nuclear programme.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Venezuela crisis: Dozens hurt in violence near border
['Al Jazeera gains exclusive access to a hospital in Brazil where Venezuelans injured in the latest protests tell their story.', "Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom reports from Boa Vista, Roraima State, Brazil where he spoke exclusively with some of the survivors.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Israeli minister tours Al-Aqsa days after Palestinian arrests
["Accompanied by Jewish settlers and Israeli police, Israel's agriculture minister tours Al-Aqsa compound amid tensions.", 'Israeli police accused the Waqf, the Islamic authority that oversees the compound, of attempting to change the status quo at the sensitive site by convening in the closed area.', 'According to local media reports, Ariel, who was under Israeli police protection and accompanied by tens of settlers, made his way to the al-Rahma gate where he took photos of the area that continues to remain restricted to Palestinian worshipers.', 'Last week, Israeli authorities closed the al-Rahma gate with chains, preventing hundreds of Palestinian worshippers from entering the Al-Aqsa Mosque complex after a group of Palestinians had opened it.', 'The contested site, revered by Jews as the Temple Mount and by Muslims as the al-Haram al-Sharif (or the Noble Sanctuary), is at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.', 'The compound is the third-holiest site in Islam, after Mecca and Medina, and is the holiest site for Jews. It has been a flashpoint of violence in the past.', 'Palestinians have long feared that\xa0Israel\xa0plans to take over the site so it can build the Third Temple, allegations denied by the Israeli government, which says it has no plans to change the status quo.', 'Since Temple activists have admitted that praying at the compound is the first step in achieving their goal of building the Third Temple in the Noble Sanctuary, Palestinians remain concerned about Jewish visitors to the compound, many of whom attempt to pray there.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Trump-Kim summit: Hanoi buzzing with T-shirts, flags and haircuts
['Clever Hanoi entrepreneurs are cashing in on the second summit between\xa0North Korea\xa0and US, to be held\xa0on February 27-28.', 'Bars are also serving drinks dubbed "Peace Negroniations", inspired by the popular Negroni cocktail; stores are selling T-shirts bearing Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un\'s faces; and even hairdressers are offering free cuts to those eager to replicate the hairstyles of the two leaders.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


No-deal Brexit may hit UK health service, report cautions
['A warning that healthcare services across the UK may suffer if Britain leaves the EU without a Brexit deal.', 'The findings, published in the medical journal The Lancet, suggest there could be shortages of medicines, vaccines and staff.', "Al Jazeera's Neave Barker reports from London.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Timeline: India-Pakistan relations
['A timeline of the rocky relationship between the two nuclear-armed South Asian neighbours.', 'Both sides agree that the instrument of accession signed by Maharaja Hari Singh be ratified by a referendum, to be held after hostilities have ceased. Historians on either side of the dispute remain undecided as to whether the Maharaja signed the document after Indian troops had entered Kashmir (i.e. under duress) or if he did so under no direct military pressure.', "Fighting continues through the second half of 1948, with the regular Pakistani army called upon to protect Pakistan's borders.", 'The war officially ends on January 1, 1949, when the United Nations arranges a ceasefire, with an established ceasefire line, a UN peacekeeping force and a recommendation that the referendum on the accession of Kashmir to India be held as agreed earlier. That referendum has yet to be held.', 'Pakistan controls roughly one-third of the state, referring to it as Azad (free) Jammu and Kashmir. It is semi-autonomous. A larger area, including the former kingdoms of Hunza and Nagar, is controlled directly by the central Pakistani government.', 'The Indian (eastern) side of the ceasefire line is referred to as Jammu and Kashmir.', 'Both countries refer to the other side of the ceasefire line as "occupied" territory.', 'Infantry, armour and air force units\xa0are involved in the conflict while it remains localised to the Kashmir theatre, but as the war expands, Indian troops cross the international border at Lahore on September 6. The largest engagement of the war takes place in the Sialkot sector, where between 400 and 600 tanks square off in an inconclusive battle.', "By September 22, both sides agree to a UN-mandated ceasefire, ending the war that had by that point reached a stalemate, with both sides holding some of the other's territory.", "December, after the Pakistani air force launches a pre-emptive attack on airfields in India's northwest.", 'India then launches a coordinated land, air and sea assault on East Pakistan. The Pakistani army surrenders at Dhaka, and its army of more than 90,000 become prisoners of war. Hostilities lasted 13 days, making this one of the shortest wars in modern history.', 'East Pakistan becomes the independent country of Bangladesh on December 6, 1971.', 'The Simla Agreement designates the ceasefire line of December 17, 1971, as being the new "Line-of-Control (LoC)" between the two countries, which neither side is to seek to alter unilaterally, and which "shall be respected by both sides without prejudice to the recognised position of either side".', 'On May 18, India detonates a nuclear device at Pokhran, in an operation codenamed "Smiling Buddha". India refers to the device as a "peaceful nuclear explosive".', 'Both sides agree to share information on the latitudes and longitudes of all nuclear installations. This agreement is later ratified, and the two countries share information on January 1 each year since then.', 'Pakistan says that it gives its "moral and diplomatic" support to the movement, reiterating its call for the earlier UN-sponsored referendum.', 'India says that Pakistan is supporting the resistance by providing weapons and training to fighters, terming attacks against it in Kashmir "cross-border terrorism". Pakistan denies this.', 'Activist groups taking part in the fight in Kashmir continue to emerge through the 1990s, in part fuelled by a large influx of "mujahideen" who took part in the Afghan war against the Soviets in the 1980s.', 'Some of the diplomatic gains are eroded, however, after the Kargil conflict breaks out in May. Pakistani forces and Kashmiri fighters occupy strategic positions on the Indian side of the LoC, prompting an Indian counter-offensive in which they\xa0are pushed back to the other side of the original LoC.', 'Kargil\xa0is the first armed conflict between the two neighbours since they officially conducted nuclear weapons tests.', 'In October 1999, General Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani chief of army staff, leads a military coup, deposing Nawaz Sharif, the then prime minister, and installing himself as the head of the government.', 'In July, Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and Indian Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee meet for a two-day summit in the Indian city of Agra. That summit collapses after two days, with both sides unable to reach agreement on the core issue of Kashmir.', 'On December 13, an armed attack on the Indian parliament in New Delhi leaves 14 people dead. India blames Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Muhammad for the attacks.', "The attacks lead to a massing of India's and Pakistan's militaries along the LoC. The standoff only ends in October 2002, after international mediation.", 'In September, President Musharraf and Prime Minister Singh agree to put into place an Indo-Pak institutional anti-terrorism mechanism.', 'The fifth round of talks regarding the review of nuclear and ballistic missile-related CBMs is held as part of the Composite Dialogue Process. The second round of the Joint Anti-Terrorism Mechanism (JATM) is also held.', "In July, India blames Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) directorate for a bomb attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul, which kills 58 and injures another 141.", 'In September, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and Indian Prime Minister Singh formally announce the opening of several trade routes between the two countries.', 'In October, cross-LoC trade commences, though it is limited to 21 items and can take place on only two days a week.', "On November 26, armed gunmen open fire on civilians at several sites in Mumbai, India. The attacks on the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower, the Oberoi Trident Hotel, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital, Nariman House Jewish community centre, Metro Cinema, St Xavier's College and in a lane near the Times of India office, prompt an almost three-day siege of the Taj, where gunmen remain holed up until all but one of them\xa0are killed in an Indian security forces operation. More than 160 people are killed in the attacks.", 'Ajmal Kasab, the only attacker captured alive, says the attackers were members of Lashkar-e-Taiba.', 'In the wake of the attacks, India breaks off talks with Pakistan.', 'Pakistani Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani and Indian Prime Minister\xa0Singh meet on the sidelines of a Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) summit in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, issuing a joint statement charting future talks. Singh rules out, however, the resumption of the Composite Dialogue Process at the present time.', 'The Indian government continues to take a stern line with Pakistan, however, with its coalition government saying that it is up to Pakistan to take the first step towards the resumption of substantive talks by cracking down on activist groups on its soil.', 'In August, India gives Pakistan a new dossier of evidence regarding the Mumbai attacks, asking it to prosecute Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, the head of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, an Islamic charity with ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba.', "In February, India and Pakistan's foreign secretaries meet in New Delhi for talks. This meeting is followed by the two countries' foreign ministers meeting in Islamabad in July.", 'In May, Ajmal Kasab is found guilty of murder, conspiracy and of waging war against India in the Mumbai attacks case. He is sentenced to death.', 'India executes Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, the lone survivor of a fighter squad that killed 166 people in a rampage through the financial capital Mumbai in 2008, hanging him just days before the fourth anniversary of the attack.', 'In September, the prime ministers of India and Pakistan meet in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly. Both the leaders agree to end tension between armies of both sides in the disputed Kashmir.', 'On February 12, India and Pakistan agree to release trucks held in their respective territories, ending a three-week impasse triggered by the seizure of a truck in India-administered Kashmir coming from across the de facto Line of Control for allegedly carrying brown sugar.', "Modi makes a surprise visit to the Pakistani eastern city of Lahore on Sharif's birthday and the wedding of his granddaughter.", 'India launches what it calls "surgical strikes" on "terrorist units" in Pakistan-administered Kashmir in September, less than two weeks after an attack on an Indian army base leaves 19 soldiers dead. Pakistan denies the attacks took place.', 'In November, seven Indian soldiers are killed after rebels disguised as policemen storm a major army base near the frontier with Pakistan.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Trump wants US troops in Iraq to 'keep an eye' on Iran
["A political storm brewing in Iraq after Donald Trump said he wants to keep troops there, to 'keep an eye' on Iran.", "Iraq's Shia-led coalition wants all US forces to leave the country.", "Al Jazeera's Charles Stratford reports from Makhmour.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Zarif's sudden offer to resign rattles Iran, Rouhani yet to reply
["President Rouhani is yet to accept his foreign minister's resignation, a move that could undermine fragile nuclear deal.", 'Speaking to the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) on Tuesday, Zarif urged his colleagues at the foreign ministry not to quit.', "The president, in remarks on Tuesday, did not directly address Zarif's resignation. Instead, Rouhani thanked the minister, describing him as at the front line of the battle against the US, according to IRNA.", "Zarif's absence at the heavily-publicised meetings caught many by surprise.", 'Entekhab news website, which is believed to be close to Rouhani\'s political camp, quoted Zarif as saying in a text message that "after the photos of today\'s meetings, Javad Zarif will no longer have credibility in the world as the Foreign Minister".', 'Entekhab also quoted an "informed source" as saying Zarif had not submitted his resignation formally and that talks were under way to dissuade him from the decision.', "The newspaper referred to a prolonged procedure in Iran's Expediency Council to pass bills to reform the country's anti-money laundering and terror financing regulations.", 'In an effort to save the nuclear deal, Germany, Britain and France recently launched a financial entity to facilitate trade with Iran; it also hinges on FATF regulations.', 'Two remaining FATF bills have been stalled due to a seemingly unending debate between moderates and the hardliners both in parliament and the Expediency Council.', 'The FATF bills have put Zarif at odds with a part of the conservative camp, which the foreign minister has implicitly accused of being engaged in money laundering activities.', 'Coupled with crippling US\xa0sanctions, these efforts have slowed down the economic benefits of the nuclear deal, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or JCPOA.', "Many Iranians see Zarif's resignation as yet another blow to the country's struggle to overcome the sanctions.", 'Sepideh, 24, said she was "horrified and upset" when she heard the foreign minister had stepped down.', "This comes at a time of growing pressure on Rouhani's administration and his willingness to engage with the international community.", 'Hardline voices have been getting louder, calling for a change in political approach.', "Esfandyar Batmanghelidj, the founder of Europe-Iran Business Forum, told Al Jazeera that if Zarif's resignation were to be accepted, the functions of diplomacy could still be capably handled by his deputy at the foreign ministry, Abbas Araghchi, who has overseen much of the technical workaround implementation.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


India vs Pakistan: Military strength and arsenal
['A comparative look at the military budget, nuclear capabilities, army, air force and navy of the South Asian rivals.', 'At least 42 Indian paramilitary personnel were killed in the attack claimed by Pakistan-based rebel group, Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM).', 'Pakistan downplayed Tuesday\'s incident, saying Indian aircraft violated Pakistani airspace and that Indian jets "released a payload" hastily in a forest area after crossing the Line of Control, the de facto border that divides Indian- and Pakistan-administered Kashmir.', 'Here is how their militaries stack up.', 'In 2018, India allocated four trillion rupees ($58bn), or 2.1 percent of its gross domestic product (GDP), to support its 1.4 million active troops, according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS).', 'Last year, Pakistan spent 1.26 trillion Pakistani rupees ($11bn), about 3.6 percent of its GDP, on its 653,800 troops. It also received $100m in foreign military assistance in 2018.', "Between 1993 and 2006, more than 20 percent of Pakistan's annual government expenditure was spent on the military, according to estimates from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI).", 'The military accounted for 16.7 percent of government spending in 2017, it said.', "By comparison, India's military spending as a percentage of its government expenditure remained under 12 percent during the same period, according to SIPRI. It was 9.1 percent in 2017.", 'Both nations have ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons.', 'India has nine types of operational missiles, including the Agni-3 with a range of 3,000km to 5,000km, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington.', "Pakistan's missile programme, built with Chinese assistance, includes mobile short- and medium-range weapons that can reach any part of India, CSIS said. The Shaheen 2 has the longest range, up to 2,000km.", 'The addition of tactical nuclear weapons to Pakistan\'s arsenal lowers the threshold for nuclear weapon use, giving Pakistan what its military terms "full spectrum deterrence" against India\'s conventional forces.', 'The weapons were developed to counter India\'s "Cold Start" doctrine, which envisions a shallow incursion into Pakistani territory without breaching its previous nuclear threshold.', "Pakistan has 140 to 150 nuclear warheads, compared with India's 130-140 warheads, according to SIPRI.", 'India has a 1.2 million-strong army, supported by more than 3,565 battle tanks, 3,100 infantry fighting vehicles, 336 armoured personnel carriers and 9,719 pieces of artillery, according to IISS.', "Pakistan's army is smaller, with 560,000 troops backed by 2,496 tanks, 1,605 armoured personnel carriers, and 4,472 artillery guns, including 375 self-propelled howitzers.", 'Despite its larger army, the capability of India\'s "conventional forces is limited by inadequate logistics, maintenance and shortages of ammunition and spare parts", IISS said in a report this month.', "With 127,200 personnel and 814 combat aircraft, India's air force is substantially larger but there are concerns about its fighter jet fleet.", "India's defence plans require 42 squadrons of jets, about 750 aircraft, to defend against a two-pronged attack from China and Pakistan.", 'With older Russian jets like the MiG-21, first used in the 1960s, retiring soon, India could have 22 squadrons by 2032, officials say.', 'Pakistan has 425 combat aircraft, including the Chinese-origin F-7PG and American F-16 Fighting Falcon jets.', 'It also has seven airborne early warning and control aircraft, three more than India, IISS said.', "India's navy consists of one aircraft carrier, 16 submarines, 14 destroyers, 13 frigates, 106 patrol and coastal combatant vessels, and 75 combat-capable aircraft.", 'It has 67,700 personnel, including marines and naval aviation staff.', 'Pakistan, which has a significantly smaller coastline, has 9 frigates, 8 submarines, 17 patrol and coastal vessels, and 8 combat-capable aircraft.', 'Can a full-blown crisis between India and Pakistan be averted?', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Afghanistan's persecuted Hazaras have little hope in peace talks
['Comprising 15 percent of the population, the mostly Shia Muslim ethnic minority has long suffered targeted killings.', 'A guard yelled "suicide attacker!" and Abbas ran towards the emergency exit door, slamming it shut behind him.', "But the attacker's foot was trapped in the door.", 'A few seconds later, Abbas was on the ground, crying out in pain. He lost consciousness.', 'The suicide bomber had detonated his explosives.', 'Abbas lost his left arm. A second car bomb exploded a few minutes later just outside the club.', 'A month earlier, in August, a suicide bomber at an education centre in Kabul killed dozens of students.', 'The Hazara have long suffered oppression and persecution in Afghanistan.', 'They are now often targeted by groups swearing allegiance to ISIL.', 'As peace talks gather pace following a series of high-level meetings between US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban representatives over the past three months in Doha, Qatar, Hazaras are doubtful that the negotiations will stop the bloodshed.', 'His 16-year-old son Aliyar received 13 stitches on his right leg after he was injured in the same attack. Both of them used to train at the club.', 'Despite a sense of insecurity among Hazaras, Abdullah is hopeful after reading news of Afghan opposition leaders attending a meeting with the Taliban in Moscow.', "Earlier this month, Afghanistan's high-profile regional and ethnic leaders, including Mohammad Mohaqiq, a Hazara political figure, held a meeting with Taliban delegates in the Russian capital.", 'Afghan President Ashraf Ghani dismissed the Moscow talks, saying the Afghan opposition leaders participating had no negotiating authority.', 'Ghani has also been excluded from Doha talks but said Khalilzad, the US envoy, has kept him informed of progress.', 'Coach Abbas, who has taught students for almost 30 years, has also returned to the club.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Voters await official result in Senegal presidential election
["Vote counting under way as Senegal's prime minister suggests Macky win amid accusations of biased process.", "That's disputed by two other candidates and many of Senegal's youth who say the electoral process should be fairer.", "Al Jazeera's Nicolas Haque reports from the capital Dakar on why the young could be a force for future change in the country.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Democrats challenge Trump's state of emergency move over wall
["Democrats hit back at US president's state of emergency declaration over the building of border wall with Mexico.", 'The vote is likely to pass, but Trump has vowed to veto it should that happen.', "Al Jazeera's John Hendren reports from Washington, DC.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


The Dark Side of the Kremlin: Hacked Russian documents explained
['On January 25, tens of thousands of Russian emails and documents were leaked online after hackers uploaded over 170 gigabytes of data to the internet.', 'The catalogue of leaks - known as The Dark Side of the Kremlin - was published by a self-styled "transparency collective" called Distributed Denial of Secrets (DDoS).', 'Private documents and emails of senior Russian political and religious figures, oligarchs and the military are among the swaths of information.', 'DDoS comprises mainly Ukrainian and Russian "hacktivists".', 'The Kremlin, in general, has proved fairly Teflon to a lot of revelations over the years. There are domestic investigators and whistleblowers ... that uncover tremendous amounts of wrongdoing and it never really has any consequence for anybody in power.', 'Journalist and co-founding DDoS member Emma Best, a US citizen, told Al Jazeera: "The information is its own goal.', 'She says the collection of emails, their attachments, and numerous chat logs were hacked over several years by various hacking groups in Ukraine and Russia including the Ukrainian Cyber Alliance, the Cyber Junta and Russian hackers Shaltai-Boltai (Humpty Dumpty) and Anonymous International.', 'What information is in the leak?', 'The leaks contain internal documents and emails originating from the Russian Presidential Administration and Ministry of Defence as well as personal emails from high-level political operatives like Kremlin adviser Vladislav Surkov and separatists in East Ukraine.', 'The personal documents of Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev were uploaded from his hacked iPhone, which included holiday pictures and a "to-do" list of renovations for his home.', 'Private notes belonging to Yevgeny Prigozhin, who is known Russian President Vladimir Putin\'s "chef" - he controlled the companies that catered high-level dinners and banquets for foreign dignitaries at the Kremlin - were also in the leak.', 'Prigozhin has been linked to the Wagner private military company, which was once described by the BBC as a "shadowy" organisation providing mercenaries in Syria.', "According to the leak, Prigozhin made notes on conversations between Putin and European leaders such as Italy's Silvio Berlusconi. The pair shared their experiences of meeting the then-retired British PM Margaret Thatcher; the Iron Lady allegedly scolded Putin for not keeping his room tidy.", 'They also shared their views of the press and compared their sleeping habits.', "What insight does it give into Russia's conflict with Ukraine?", "However, Samuel Greene, head of the Russia Institute at King's College London (KCL), urged caution.", 'The leaks do give some insight into Russia\'s influence in Ukraine - showing its material support and financial control of separatist leaders. A document labelled "Operation Troy" detailed a Russian plan to create a land bridge to Crimea by having Russian forces dress as Ukrainian nationalists in order to take over the southern regions of Dnipro and Zaporizhia.', 'Conversations in the hacked emails of Tatiana Yegorova, a DNR communications employee, showed how British BBC correspondents were described as "NATO propagandists" but were allowed accreditation on the basis that the broadcaster was "influential".', 'Why were the documents leaked now?', 'Best explained that the release made all the information "available in one place in a way that prevents censorship or it being lost to the memory hole." The group, she says, is self-funded from the collective\'s members\' own pockets.', 'Is this leak connected to the DNC dump, via WikiLeaks?', 'An important distinction for DDoS is that the Kremlin leaks are not revenge for the 2016 DNC and John Podesta email dump, which prompted the US to accuse of Russia of interfering with its electoral process.', 'Best concedes, saying it may "add a layer of irony" to the emails, but maintains that this wasn\'t their motive.', 'Is all the information new?', 'Most of the leaks have been available on the dark web for some time.', 'Despite this, Dobrokhotov estimates at least a dozen investigations were completed on the Presidential Administration hacks alone.', 'There have been relatively few conducted by English-language media, however.', 'He says the leak would be "super-interesting for Western media", adding that there are better resources now for probing the information compared to when the documents were first hacked, explaining that now is "the best time" for investigative journalists.', 'Greene, of KCL, explained: "In terms of what\'s been released - most of it is old enough at this point that the Kremlin will see it as \'water under the bridge\' - they’re not worried about the fallout of anything that might be revealed.', 'What does the leak reveal about Russia?', 'Chatham House Academy Fellow Anna Korbut, a former journalist from Ukraine, said Western observers could learn from the leaks how Russian "active measures" - the opaque activities of their people and proxies - have created a paradigm shift in terms of how states act beyond their borders.', 'What will happen next?', 'It remains unclear, but Russia has punished hackers and cracked down on sharing information before.', 'Several hackers were detained by the Russian Federal Security Bureau in 2016 at the time of the original leaks. Two later left Russia, while a third - Vladimir Anikeev of Shaltai-Boltai - was jailed for two years in 2017.', 'More recently, the Russian Ministry of Defence banned its soldiers from using social media.', 'Dobrokhotov says the government now pays close attention to its cybersecurity, but believes it still has "so many holes" because of "corrupted" Russian institutions.', 'Korbut thinks that leaks will continue "on both sides" given the increased skill of hackers globally and relatively easy access to digital tools.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.', 'Nearly two billion voters in 52 countries around the world will head to the polls this year to elect their leaders.', "Russian-Saudi relations could be very different today, if Stalin hadn't killed the Soviet ambassador to Saudi Arabia.", "How the art world's hunger for ancient artefacts is destroying a centuries-old culture. A journey across the Himalayas."]


Top aide to pope convicted of child sex crimes in Australia
['Cardinal George Pell found guilty in December of abusing two choirboys in 1996.', "Cardinal George Pell, the most senior cleric ever charged with child sex abuse, has been found guilty in an Australian court of sexually assaulting two choirboys, in a major blow to the credibility of the Roman Catholic Church's leadership after a year of worldwide revelations of abuse and cover-up.", 'Pell, now aged 77, was accused of cornering the boys - then aged 12 and 13 - in a small room at the back of the cathedral after he caught them drinking the sacramental wine following Sunday mass. He then forced them to perform a sex act on him.', 'The jury also found Pell guilty of indecently assaulting one of the boys in a corridor more than a month later.', 'The cleric, who remained free on bail throughout the proceedings, denied all the charges and an initial trial ended with a hung jury in September. He was convicted on retrial on December 11.', 'A wide-ranging suppression order from the judge had prevented the media from reporting even the existence of court proceedings and the ensuing trials since May.', "As a correspondent, my job is to tell people what's happened.", 'I knew in mid-December that Cardinal Pell had been convicted of sexually abusing teenage boys.', "But, threatened with five years in prison if I did, I couldn't broadcast the news.", 'It was deeply frustrating.', 'Cardinal Pell had been accused of multiple counts of sexual abuse. I was in court in Melbourne last May for part of the "committal hearing" to decide which of the accusations should go to trial, when and how.\xa0 I sat near Cardinal Pell wondering if the old man sitting to my right could really be guilty of the long line of crimes of which he had been accused.', 'The outcome of that committal process was that Pell would face two jury trials. The first trial would be for allegations of sexual abuse inside a Melbourne cathedral in the mid-1990s; the second trial - later -would be for alleged crimes at a swimming pool in the 1970s.', 'To prevent a jury in the second trial being influenced by what they heard or read about the first, the judge ordered the suppression order.', "Justice should be done and seen to be done. But in Australia, the second part can be abandoned if it's thought to threaten the first.", "On Tuesday, though, prosecutors said they'd dropped the second trial; the suppression order on the first was lifted.", 'The world can finally hear what those in court - or able to talk to them - knew in December; that Cardinal Pell - the most senior Catholic in the world accused of sexual abuse - had been found guilty.', 'But the order was lifted on Tuesday when prosecutors withdrew plans for a second trial on allegations from the 1970s.', 'Pell, who has been free on bail, faces as many as 50 years in prison for the offences with sentencing due to begin on Wednesday when he is expected to be remanded in custody.', 'The statement said that numerous allegations and other charges against Pell had already been withdrawn or discharged.', "Pell's own hometown of Ballarat, about 90 minutes west of Melbourne, had such a high incidence of abuse that the city warranted its own case study in the Royal Commission report. About one in five Australians are Catholic.", "Until the verdict, Pell's lawyers had appeared confident that they had established a reasonable doubt in the minds of the 12-member jury.", "When the chairman announced the first guilty verdict, Pell's hands slipped from the armrests of the chair where he sat in the dock at the back of the courtroom. His head bowed after the second verdict, but he restored his composure for the final verdicts.", 'The now 34-year-old survivor of the attack told the court that he had not really understood what was happening when Pell abused him and that he feared making such accusations against a powerful church figure would cost him his place in the choir and his scholarship to a prestigious school.', 'In a statement on Tuesday, he said that the case had been stressful and was not over yet.', 'The second victim died of a heroin overdose in 2014.', 'Pell did not give evidence at the trial, but more than 20 witnesses, including clerics, choristers and altar servers, gave evidence.', 'None recalled ever seeing the complainant and the other victim break from a procession of choristers, altar servers and clerics to go to the back room.', 'The complainant testified that he and his friend had run from the procession and back into the cathedral through a side door to, in the words of the prosecutor, "have some fun".', "Others told the jury that Pell's archbishop robes were too heavy and cumbersome for him to have abused the boys in the way they had described.", "Pell's conviction is likely to further tarnish Pope Francis since he appointed the Australian cardinal to the Vatican's economy ministry even though the allegations against him were already known.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Drug offence executions more than halve in 2018 after Iran reform
['Report warns that populist governments advocating use of death penalty may undermine global progress towards abolition.', 'It is the first time the number of executions - which excludes China and Vietnam - has fallen below 100 since the London-based NGO started compiling figures in 2007.', 'But the annual report warned that at least 7,000 people across the world are on death row for drug offences and that populist governments advocating the use of capital punishment as a key plank of drug control policy could undermine global progress towards abolition.', 'China continued to use capital punishment in relation to drug crimes, and HRI was able to confirm a number of specific occasions when people had been executed for drug offences.', 'The report did not provide a specific figure because the number of confirmed executions is likely to be an underestimate in a country where death penalty statistics are a state secret. China is also not included in the headline figure for global executions for the same reason. Nor is Vietnam where executions are also shrouded in secrecy.', 'Executions in Iran dropped by 50 percent last year following amendments to drug legislation that increased the minimum amounts of drugs for death penalty offences. The change meant executions were put on hold while cases were reviewed.', 'However, she noted that a mandatory death sentence remained in force for a number of drug-related crimes.', "Ministers acknowledged that capital punishment had not succeeded in reducing drug use or trafficking, while the punitive policy meant more than 50 percent of inmates in the country's prisons were being held for drug offences.", "Nevertheless, Malaysia's announcement triggered upset among those who support capital punishment and the necessary legislation has still to be introduced in parliament.", 'Adeeba said policymakers needed to better articulate their case.', 'Despite evidence that capital punishment is no deterrent to drugs, HRI noted that last year some countries appeared to be looking to the death penalty as a key component of drug policy.', "HRI's Girelli said continued progress to eliminate the death penalty, which remains a punishment for drugs in 35 countries and territories around the world, would depend on political will and public education.", 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif resigns
["A key player in the Iranian government for years, Javad Zarif announced he's stepping down as foreign minister.", 'Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif stepped down on Monday, announcing his resignation on Instagram.', 'There was no immediate reason giving for the resignation, which can only take effect if President Hassan Rouhani accepts it.', 'A vocal supporter of the deal, Zarif has since come under pressure from more hardline power blocs within the Islamic Republic who were opposed to the agreement, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).', "Trump's decision prompted Iran's currency, the rial, to plunge, prompting sporadic nationwide protests.", 'A staunch Rouhani ally, Zarif - normally collected - appeared visibly frustrated at times during a recent security conference in Munich.', 'Already lashed by criticism over the collapsing nuclear deal and renewed tensions with the US, Rouhani faces anger from religious leaders, hardline forces and an ever-growing disaffected public.', "Rouhani is particularly vulnerable because of the economic crisis affecting the country's currency, which has hurt ordinary Iranians and emboldened critics to openly call for his removal.", 'The president secured the 2015 nuclear deal after two years in office and won the praise of Iranians, who flooded the streets to celebrate it. Under the agreement, Iran limited its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.', 'But the benefits of the deal never reached much of the Iranian public. Even before Trump pulled out from the accord, uncertainty over its future caused the rial to plummet.', 'Tara Kangarlou, a fellow at East West Institute, called Zarif\'s resignation "a big blow" to Rouhani.', 'Mehran Haghirian, an Iran\xa0analyst and doctorate student of Gulf Studies at Qatar University, said Zarif\'s resignation - if accepted by Rouhani - would be "a loss for not just Iranian diplomacy but for those in the international community who seek peace and global stability".', 'Following the resignation, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Zarif is "one of the "front men for a corrupt religious mafia".', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Trump-Kim summit 2.0: What you need to know
["The US president and the North Korean leader are set to hold high-stakes talks in Vietnam's Hanoi this week.", "On the eve of the talks, Al Jazeera takes a look at what's on the table in the US-North Korea summit 2.0.", 'How did we get here?', 'In Singapore, Kim and Trump outlined four commitments: establishing "new relations" for peace and prosperity; building a "lasting a stable peace regime on the Korean Peninsula"; working "towards denuclearisation"; and recovering and repatriating the remains of soldiers killed during the Korean War.', "However, the agreement did not explicitly define denuclearisation - leading to disagreements over what it means - nor did it detail a specific timeline for the destruction of North Korea's nuclear weapons arsenal.", 'What does the US want?', 'As Trump has made clear, the US is seeking an assurance from North Korea that it will stop testing its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.', 'It also wants Pyongyang to get rid of all its weapons for its mass destruction programmes, as well as produce a roadmap and concrete plan of action on how it sets about achieving that goal.', "A recent report by Stanford University's Centre for International Security and Cooperation said North Korea appears to have produced enough bomb fuel in the past year to add as many as seven nuclear weapons to its arsenal.", 'Ben Young, a North Korea analyst and historian, told Al Jazeera.', 'While some US politicians and analysts have speculated that Trump might agree to reduce the US military presence in South Korea - which totals around 28,500 soldiers - officials in Seoul and Washington have said troop levels are not up for negotiation.', 'What does North Korea want?', 'Hit by food shortages and burdened by US-led international sanctions over its nuclear programme, which have cut it off from most global trade, North Korea last year shifted its focus to economic development.', 'Pyongyang "needs to secure economic, political and diplomatic benefits from this summit".', 'The two Koreas are technically still at war as the hostilities stopped in 1953 with a truce signed by the US, representing United Nations forces, and the militaries of North Korea and China.', 'The armistice agreement - adhered to but not signed by South Korea, whose leaders at the time rejected the idea of a ceasefire that left the peninsula divided - fell short of a peace treaty that has governed the conflict ever since.', 'On Monday, a presidential spokesperson in Seoul said an end-of-war statement by just two parties - Pyongyang and Washington - would be enough, adding that the focus should be on leading "North Korea to denuclearisation smoothly through the declaration".', 'What is the view in Seoul?', 'The talks in Hanoi follow a thaw in relations between North and South Korea last year, which saw Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in meeting three times.', 'During those summits, the two leaders agreed to a series of goodwill gestures, vowing to resume economic collaboration when possible and take steps to reduce military threats.', 'Just like Pyongyang, the inter-Korean economic projects are also sought after by Seoul, including the relaunch of operations at the jointly run Kaesong Industrial Park, which has been suspended for three years.', 'Located just inside North Korea across the demilitarised zone, the complex was launched in 2004 with the idea of South Korean companies manufacturing their products using North Korean labour, helping it improve its economy.', 'To win some of those concessions from Washington, North Korea could follow through on shutting its main Yongbyon nuclear complex, as well as abolishing key missile facilities in the presence of foreign experts, South Korean officials have said.', 'What is the likely outcome of the talks?', 'Washington to be open to taking interim steps for any agreement to be possible.', 'For his part, Ko said he wanted to see North Korea "agree on a process to dismantle Yongbyon nuclear facility".', 'That facility, according to Jeffrey Lewis, a scholar at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey, is functional.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Cubans approve new constitution affirming role of socialism
['Nearly 87 percent of Cuban voters approved new constitution, which updates some financial, electoral and criminal laws.', 'The margin of victory was relatively low for a country where opposition parties and campaigns are illegal and official proposals routinely receive higher than 90 percent approval.', "Cuba's National Electoral Commission said 7,848,343 people voted Sunday on the new charter, which was widely promoted as a vehicle for continuity in one of the world's last communist nations.", 'The commission said 6,816,169 people voted in favour of the new constitution. Some 300,000 votes were counted as invalid because they were blank or defaced, while 706,400 people voted against the new constitution.', 'The current constitution was approved by 97.7 percent of voters in a referendum in 1976, the peak of a system dedicated to displays of national unity.', 'In recent weeks, Diaz-Canel\'s government waged a non-stop campaign promoting a "yes" vote and tarring those voting "no" as counterrevolutionaries and enemies of the state. Aside from a few independent websites, all Cuban media is state-run and the airwaves were filled with messages urging people to vote "yes" for the sake of continuity on the island.', 'The new constitution recognises private and cooperative businesses alongside state ones, creates the posts of prime minister and provincial governor, and introduces the presumption of innocence and habeas corpus to the justice system. It also sets term limits for the president.', 'The "no" campaign was amplified by the rapid spread of mobile internet across Cuba in recent months. Some 2 million Cubans on the island have contracted mobile data service since it was offered for the first time in December.', 'The largest block of "no" votes was expected to come from the growing ranks of evangelical Christians in Cuba, who object to language that eliminates a requirement for marriage to be only between a man and woman, paving the way for a future legalisation of gay marriage.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


US ramps up pressure on Maduro with fresh sanctions
["US announces sanctions on four state governors, asks Latin American countries to step up pressure on Venezuela's Maduro.", 'The US took its campaign to Security Council, requesting the body to discuss the situation in Venezuela.', 'Vice President Mike Pence also said stronger sanctions are coming soon.', "Pence also urged other Latin American countries to freeze the assets of PDVSA, Venezuela's state-owned oil company, and to restrict visas for officials close to Maduro.", 'On Friday, two people were killed in a confrontation between the Venezuelan military on the Brazilian border with Venezuela as an attempt to deliver aid was made from there.', 'Three trucks were also set ablaze on another Cucuta bridge when they attempted to enter Venezuela, and the remaining vehicles were sent back to Cucuta in order to safeguard the aid they carried.', 'Guaido, who is recognised by most Western nations as Venezuela\'s legitimate leader, called on all foreign powers "to consider all options in ousting Maduro".', 'In response, Maduro tweeted that Venezuela would sort its own issues, without "the empire and its lackeys".', 'China, who supports Maduro, hit back at the embattled leader\'s critics, saying it opposes "intervention by external forces in the internal affairs of Venezuela".', 'China\'s foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said on Monday they "also oppose using the so-called humanitarian aid to serve political ends and stir up instability and even turmoil in Venezuela".', 'Despite the US\'s announcement of fresh sanctions and its continued support for Guaido, Sergio Guzman, director of Colombia Risk Analysis, a political risk consultancy, said Monday\'s Lima Group meeting would have "no effect on Maduro\'s grip on the country".', "In a statement following Monday's meeting, the bloc demanded that the Maduro leave his post immediately and make way for a democratic transition that included free elections.", 'The Lima group was established in August 2017 by 12 countries to find a peaceful resolution to the Venezuelan crisis. The US is not part of the group, and the Trump administration has so far declined to rule out the use of military force.', 'Have your say.', 'Give us feedback.', 'Newsletter.']


Sanath Jayasuriya banned for two years for breaching ICC Anti-Corruption Code
['Former Sri Lanka batsman Sanath Jayasuriya was on Tuesday banned for two years after admitting to obstruct an anti-corruption probe by tampering with evidence sought by the International Cricket Council (ICC).', 'Jayasuriya admitted breaching the anti-corruption unit (ACU) code of the global body on two separate counts.', 'Jayasuriya is a former Sri Lankan captain who was also a key member of the 1996 World Cup winning team. He later served two terms as the chairman of selectors.', 'Jayasuriya was questioned as part of the ICC’s investigation of wide-scale corruption in Sri Lankan cricket.', 'The ACU recently gave an amnesty in relation to Sri Lanka Cricket resulting in 11 players and other participants coming forward with new information.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Excellent Phoenix rises to the occasion
['Excellent Phoenix (Dhebe up) won the Waterfalls Plate (1,400m), the feature of the races here on Tuesday (Feb. 26). The winner is the property of Mrs. S. Prema and trained by A. Malick.', 'Jackpot: ₹20,0485 (C/o on 3rd leg), Mini jackpot: 22,353 (two tkts), Treble (1): 48,767 (one tkt.), (ii): 746 (81 tkts.).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Cummins praises ‘fast and accurate’ Bumrah
["Jasprit Bumrah celebrates the wicket of Australia's Nathan Coulter-Nile during the first Twenty20 cricket match between India and Australia at ACA-VDCA Stadium in Visakhapatnam, on February 24, 2019.", 'In-form Australian pacer Pat Cummins on Tuesday could not help but praise another fast bowler on the top of his game - Jasprit Bumrah, saying the Indian’s pace and accuracy has made him a serious threat in all three formats.', 'Cummins has been Australia’s standout fast bowler over the last 12 months and has even made some useful contributions with the bat, including in the first T20 against India in Vizag on Sunday, when he got a crucial four and a double on the final two balls to pull off a three wicket win for his team.', 'Bumrah, on the other hand, brought back India into the game by taking two wickets in the 19th over in which he conceded just two runs. In his comeback game, he showed how invaluable he has become for India in all three formats.', 'The 25-year-old from Sydney himself has become invaluable for his team after maintaining his fitness over the past two seasons. He did well in the home Test series against India though the hosts lost before blowing away Sri Lanka.', 'He has also been involved with some tense finishes including the one in the last game. Though he doesn’t consider himself as a proper batsman yet, Cummins relishes the challenge of closing out games.', 'Talking about thriving in tense moments, Cummins said: “You play international sport because you want to be in moments where you can win a game. T20 is a great format, almost feels like every second or third, you are either in a position to win a game or the game is on the line.', 'Australia are a game away from a series win in India and if that happens, “it will be a huge result”, feels Cummins.', 'Cummins loved the bowler-friendly conditions in Vizag but is expecting more runs from the surface at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Mariachi, Sahara, Sea Of Cortez, Electra, Blue Moon and Smile Stone shine
['Camila (T.S. Jodha) 1-7, 600/40. Strode out well.', 'Prevalent Force (R. Pradeep) 41.5. Pleased. Play Safe (Ashok) 46. Easy. Inky Black (S. Shareef) 41.5. Impressed.', 'Star Cracker (Rajesh B) 1-12.5, 600/42. Pleased. Blue Moon (T.S. Jodha) 1-10.5, 600/41.5. Moved attractively. Mariachi (Nazerul) 1-11, 600/40.5. A fine display. Cosmic Feeling (T.S. Jodha) 1-13.5, 600/42. Strode out well. Smile Stone (Mark), Naazaan (M. Naveen) 1-11.5, 600/41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Set To Win (Irvan) 1-16, 600/43. Moved freely.', 'Electra (T.S. Jodha), Sea Of Cortez (Nazerul) 1-26.5, 1,000/1-11, 600/41. They moved fluently. Regal Force (Ganesh) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-9, 600/44. Moved impressively. Side Winder (rb) 1-24.5, 1,000/1-10, 600/44.5. Shaped well. Sahara (Nazerul) 1-30, 1,000/1-13, 600/40.5. A pleasing display.', 'Psychic Force (R. Pradeep) 1-45, 1,200/1-29.5, 1,000/1-14.5, 600/43. In fine trim.', "Palm Reader (S. Shareef), Donna Bella (Anjar) 1-23.5, (1,200-600) 40. Former finished four lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Arazan - Star Angel) (Darshan), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Sinead Of Aglish) (Adarsh), a 3-y-o (Roi Maudit - Inspiration) (rb) 1-21, (1,200-600) 40.5. First named impressed. Tio Rico (rb), Wonderlust (rb) 1-20.5, (1,200-600) 39.5. Former showed out. War Hero (T.S. Jodha), Dontbreaktherules (Nazerul) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 38. Former finished distance ahead. Extremelydangerous (rb), Blackhawk (P. Mani) 1-27, (1,200-600) 42. They jumped out well. Akasi (rb), Country's Jewel (Raghu) 1-25, (1,200-600) 42. They took a good jump and finished level. Southern Power (R. Ravi), Queen Regnant (Ashok) 1-26.5, (1,200-600) 43. Former finished six lengths ahead. A 3-y-o (Juniper - Secret Love) (Surya), Don Dela Vega (rb) 1-25, (1,200-600) 41. Former finished two lengths ahead. Song And Dance (D. Patel), Skiathos (Nazerul) 1-32, (1,200-600) 47.5. They finished level. Fresh Start (Irvan), Louisiana (T.S. Jodha) 1-19.5, (1,200-600) 40.5. Former finished three lengths ahead.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


El Comandante and Captain Courage show out
['El Comandante and Captain Courage showed out when the horses were exercised here on Tuesday (Feb. 26) morning.', 'Faldo (Jethu) 51, 600/37. Moved well. Beshiktash (Parbat) 50, 600/37. Pleased.', 'Eyes For You (Downey) 1-5, 800/52, 600/39. Moved attractively.', 'El Comandante (A.Gaikwad) 1-18, 1000/1-4, 800/51, 600/38. Maintains winning form. Captain Courage (A. Gaikwad) 1-20, 1000/1-7, 800/54, 600/41. Moved freely.', 'Bronx (B. Nikhil) 1-40, 600/43. Good. Eagleinthesky (Akshay), Smasher (Parmar) 1-39, 1200/1-24, 1000/1-9, 800/55, 600/40.5. Both were easy.', 'Sacred Roman (Kharadi) 2-3, 1600/1-49, 1400/1-35, 1200/1-21, 1000/1-7, 800/53, 600/39. Worked well.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


India eye series-saving win over Australia in second T20I
['The focus remains firmly on the 50-over World Cup but India would also be desperate to ensure that a home series does not slip out of their grip when they take on Australia in the second and final T20 International here on Wednesday.', 'India are 0-1 down after an inexplicably poor batting performance led to a three-wicket loss in the opener in Visakhapatnam.', 'The below-par 126 with the bat on Sunday denied bowlers a decent shot at securing a win even though the Jasprit Bumrah-led attack did all it could to keep the home team in the game till the final over of the match.', 'India skipper Virat Kohli has already said that his squad composition for the World Cup in May-July is “more or less sorted” but has not ruled out rewarding standout performances over the course of two T20s and five ODIs.', 'Considering the captain’s current frame of mind, both KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant are likely to feature in most of the games against Australia.', 'India rested opener Shikhar Dhawan to give game time to Rahul, who grabbed the opportunity with both hands by smashing 50 off 36 balls in his comeback game.', 'He had a disastrous Test tour of Australia before he and Hardik Pandya were provisionally suspended for their comments during a TV show.', 'The ban was later revoked though they still face an inquiry.', 'With the series on the line, it remains to be seen if Dhawan is brought back into the side to open alongside Rohit Sharma or the team retains the opening combination which featured in Vizag.', 'While Bumrah showed his class after coming back from a break, the other pacer in Umesh Yadav leaked runs and was not able to defend 14 in the final over.', 'India could replace Umesh with Siddarth Kaul or bring in all-rounder Vijay Shankar to beef-up the batting department.', 'The hosts played with a long tail in Vizag and that impacted their final total following an inexplicable batting collapse from 69 for one in the ninth over.', 'Pant, a strong contender for a World Cup berth, will be itching to perform after getting out cheaply on Sunday, and so will be Dinesh Karthik, who is left with just one game to make a compelling contribution before the World Cup.', 'All eyes will once again also be on Mahendra Singh Dhoni the batsman who struggled to an unbeaten 29 off 37 balls as India managed 126 for seven in Vizag.', 'He was able to silence his critics with a solid showing in Australia and New Zealand but his rather slow innings on Sunday has got the tongues wagging again over his waning finishing abilities.', 'Debutant leg-spinner Mayank Markande (0/31 in four overs) did not pick up a wicket but bowled well according to Kohli. The 21-year-old might get another game.', 'Australia, on the other hand, will be fancying a rare series win against India in recent times, especially after losing the Test and ODI series at home to Kohli’s team.', 'They would be happy with their bowling on a slow surface in the first game but made a mess of the 127-run target after cruising at one stage.', 'Australia somehow got over the line but they know that India won’t be serving the series win on a platter and will come hard at them at the Chinnaswamy Stadium.', 'Captain Aaron Finch would love to be back among the runs and the team will be expecting another blinder from Glenn Maxwell, who hit 56 off 43 deliveries in Vizag.', 'Match starts: 7pm IST.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Rockets beat Hawks 119-111; Leipzig remain on course for Champions League
['Not in the mood to go through the sports news in detail, but can’t quite get yourself to do away with it either? Here’s what we have to offer: read on to get a summary of all the main sports events.', 'Houston Rockets defeated Atlanta Hawks 119-111 on Monday but the match might be better remembered for bringing an end to James Harden’s 32-game streak with at least 30 points.', 'The streak, the second-longest in NBA history behind Wilt Chamberlain’s epic 65-game run, came to an end as Harden finished with 28 points in the match.', 'Willi Orban scored an equaliser for Leipzig in the last minute of normal time as Leipzig registered a 1-1 draw against Hoffenheim in the Bundesliga that keeps them on course for a Champions League place next season.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The Interim Budget presented on February 2 gave us a glimpse of how the government spent our money and what they plan to do in the coming year. Here are some of the highlights.']


Knight In Armour fancied
['Knight In Armour has an edge in the Waterfalls Plate (1,400m), the feature of the races to be held here on Tuesday (Feb 26).', 'Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4 (ii): 5, 6 & 7.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Federer wins in Dubai to begin latest bid for 100th title
['Roger Federer’s latest attempt to win his 100th ATP singles title made a shaky start at the Dubai Championships where he overcame Philipp Kohlschreiber 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 on Monday.', 'Federer entered the first-round match with a 13-0 record against the German, and broke in the first game to run through the first set.', 'But Kohlschreiber forced a third set between them for only the third time. In that set, Federer forced an error to break for 2-0 and held, and cruised home.', 'Federer won his 99th tour title in October in Basel, and his bid for the 100th has ended so far in two semifinals, then the fourth round of the Australian Open.', 'Next up for him is Fernando Verdasco, the 2017 Dubai runner-up to Andy Murray. Verdasco beat Italian qualifier Thomas Fabbiano 3-6, 6-3, 6-2.', 'The two other seeds in action beside Federer lost.', 'Nikolaz Basilashvili, the highest-ranked Georgian in ATP history at No. 19, upset fourth-seeded Karen Khachanov of Russia 6-4, 6-1, and Jan-Lennard Struff of Germany spoiled seventh-seeded Milos Raonic’s Dubai debut 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.', 'Basilashvili will play for a spot in the quarterfinals against defending champion Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain, who beat Indian wild card Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-3.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


More mixed events, please
['Despite making headlines worldwide, it is unlikely that the world will see a repeat of this. The future of the Hopman Cup is uncertain because the Association of Tennis Players (ATP) is planning to relaunch its World Team Cup, the ATP Cup, around the same time. This all-men’s event will serve as another springboard before the Australian Open, carry a hefty $15 million in prize money and, most importantly, contribute to player ranking points. On the other hand, despite its star performances, the Hopman Cup does not count towards rankings.', 'Of all major sports, tennis celebrates men and women competing as equals in the same major tournaments, for the same prize money, and in front of the same crowds. Apart from mixed doubles at the Grand Slams and the Olympics, the Hopman Cup is the only tournament where tennis fans can witness the best men and women players compete on the same court. It is one of those rare events that features mixed doubles as the main crowd draw. Some stellar examples from the past include Boris Becker and Steffi Graf, who played together in 1992, and Federer and Martina Hingis, who played together in 2001. This year, Federer and Belinda Bencic won. A record 1,10,364 people were in attendance and several days were sold out.', 'This is perhaps why it is surprising that the sport has decided to let it go, rather than embrace it as a huge selling point. It also points to what the sport thinks of mixed doubles. Even at Grand Slams, these matches are given little fanfare and often relegated to smaller courts. The prize for winning at Wimbledon is $1.45 million compared to $3 million for the singles winner.', 'But for fans of tennis, some of the most entertaining matches feature both men and women. They are a mixture of power and finesse, joy and unpredictability. Tennis is a gender-balanced sport. But in the last two years, three new all-men events have been introduced: the ATP Cup, the revamped Davis Cup and the Laver Cup. There is no reason why these tournaments cannot include a female or mixed doubles version. When you get your best men and women together, it is ultimately the sport that wins.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Mumbai coasts to victory over Goa
['Marauder: Opener Prithvi Shaw’s five boundaries and seven sixes set Mumbai on course for victory.', 'Openers Prithvi Shaw (71, 47b, 5x5, 7x6) and Ajinkya Rahane (31, 25b, 5x4) clicked for the first time in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy to set up Mumbai’s convincing six-wicket win over Goa and help the side maintain a clean slate in Group C.', 'Shaw’s 95-run association with captain Rahane ensured Mumbai overhauled a moderate target without any fuss after an all-round bowling effort had restricted Goa to 140 for four.', 'In the first half of the league stage, neither Shaw — returning after recovering from the ankle injury he suffered in Australia — nor Rahane — in a desperate bid to revive his white-ball career for India — had been able to make meaningful contributions.', 'In fact, both had not even survived the first three overs in Mumbai’s three matches coming into Monday’s game.', 'They turned the tide in style against an attack that lacked penetration. The moment the diminutive Shaw pulverised swinger Krishna Das over cover and extra cover for sixes off consecutive balls in the fourth over, the signs were ominous.', 'He took on part-time leg-spinner Amit Verma, despatching him over the fence against the turn thrice in an over besides cutting him for a four through backward point.', 'Rahane found the gaps and swept left-arm spinner Darshan Misal at will.', 'Just when they were running away with the game, Rahane top-edged a flick off medium-pacer Vijesh Prabhudesai for Suyash Prabhudesai to complete a running catch at mid-wicket.', 'Shaw then swept Misal for a six over mid-wicket before mistiming another attempt to deep square-leg. In-form Shreyas Iyer and Siddhesh Lad then fell cheaply to prolong Goa’s defeat before Suryakumar Yadav and Aditya Tare completed the formalities in the penultimate over.', 'Earlier, after being put in to field, Mumbai’s bowlers put in yet another disciplined effort to not let Goa’s batsmen thrive.', 'Pacer Shardul Thakur was unlucky, with Shreyas and Rahane failing to latch on to difficult chances in the field.', 'Goa captain Amogh Desai started upping the ante, before Shreyas ran in from sweeper cover to end his innings off a mistimed drive off left-arm spinner Shams Mulani.', 'The other Goa batsmen failed to get on top of the Mumbai bowlers, with Suyash’s six and a four off the last two balls of the innings off Dhawal Kulkarni helping the team touch the 140-run mark.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: J & K has it easy against Andhra
['Consistent: Shubham Singh Pundir’s second consecutive half-century, which included six boundaries and a six, ensured J&K’s win over Andhra.', 'Jammu & Kashmir pulled off a five-wicket win over Andhra in a Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket league match at the Mulapadu Cricket Complex here on Monday.', 'Andhra, put into bat, scored 146 for seven in 20 overs with wicketkeeper-batsman K. Srikar Bharat (41, 38b, 3x4, 1x6) being the top-scorer. The others found the bowling tough to score with medium-pacer Ram Dayal (two for 23) being the main wicket-taker. Off-spinner Parvez Rasool bowled a tidy spell of one for 19 in his four overs.', 'In reply, J & K achieved the target thanks to a belligerent knock by Shubham Singh Pundir, who cracked his second consecutive half-century (51, 36b, 6x4, 1x6), and Parvez Rasool’s breezy 22-ball 31 (1x4, 2x6).', 'In another match, Delhi recorded a comfortable, seven-wicket win over Kerala thanks to a fine knock by Nitesh Rana (52 not out, 36b, 4x4, 2x6) after opener Unmkut Chand struck a 32-ball 33 (2x6).', 'Manipur notched up the most emphatic win of the day when it drubbed Nagaland by 10 wickets with openers Mayank Raghav (80 not out, 45b, 4x4, 6x6) and P. Prafullomani (51 not out, 54b, 4x4, 1x6) batting with lot of freedom to help team chase down 133 easily.', 'Andhra 146 for seven in 20 overs (K.S. Bharat 41) lost to J & K 148 for five in 20 overs (Abdul Samad 30, Shubham Singh Putir 51, Parvez Rasool 31).', 'Nagaland 132 for seven in 20 overs (Abrar Kavi 36, K. Priyojit three for 23) lost to Manipur 134 for no loss in 16.3 overs (Mayank Raghav 80 not out, P. Prafullomani 51 not out).', 'Kerala 139 for seven in 20 overs (Sachin Baby 37, Vinoop Sheela Manoharan 38) lost to Delhi 140 for three in 18.3 overs (Unmukt Chand 33, Nitesh Rana 52 not out).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Assam springs a surprise on Bengal
['Spinning a web: Shreyas Gopal picked up four wickets for just eight runs as the Mizoram batsmen were all at sea.', "Sibsankar Roy struck a brilliant 83 off just 53 balls as Bengal's batting failed once again to slip to a 26-run defeat against Assam in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 cricket tournament here on Monday. Assam’s third consecutive win propelled it to the No. 2 spot in Group D.", 'Set 163 to win, Bengal was dealt an early blow when opener Vivek Singh was caught behind off Mukhtar Hussain.', 'Kanishk Seth was promoted as a pinch hitter but the move backfired after the left-arm pacer was caught short of his crease by wicketkeeper Wasiqur Rahman.', 'And when Abhimanyu Easwaran’s top-edge was snaffled up at point three overs later, Bengal was left wobbling at 34 for three inside the first six overs.', 'Shreevats Goswami, the in-form batsman, struggled to time the ball on a two-paced pitch but hung on for a 34-run fifth-wicket stand with Wriddhman Saha.', 'However, Saha’s dismissal off Hussain compounded the problems. With the asking rate climbing, Goswami perished for 43 off Riyan Parag.', 'Earlier, Ashoke Dinda removed openers Sarupam Purkayastha and Pallav Das in quick succession after Bengal put Assam in.', 'Dinda bowled an incisive first spell conceding only five in two overs.', 'Ishan Porel further limited the scoring opportunities, bowling three overs on the trot giving away just 14.', 'Sibsankar tried to inject life into Assam’s otherwise sedate scoring up front, collecting four boundaries off Seth, two of those glorious cover-drives.', 'He brought up his fifty off 36 balls and added 137 for the third wicket with Parag.', 'Sibsankar was eventually run out for a 53-ball 83, but Parag’s quickfire half-century ensured Assam reached an eventually winning total. Dinda finished with four for 17.', 'In another match, Karnataka rolled over minnow Mizoram by 137 runs to consolidate its position at the top of Group D.', 'Rohan Kadam and Karun Nair toyed with the opposition attack, plundering 11 boundaries and eight sixes between them as the first-timer from North East wilted.', 'The duo added an enterprising 128 for the second wicket, with Karnataka breaching the 100-run mark in just 10.3 overs.', 'Rohan and Karun brought up their half-centuries off 39 and 26 balls respectively.', 'Twenty fours and 11 sixes in total were hit by the Karnataka batsmen as leg-spinner Sinan Khadir ended up leaking 54 in four overs — the most expensive of the seven bowlers used.', 'Mizoram openers Taruwar Kohli and Akhil Rajput put on an opening stand of 63 but their dismissals sealed the team’s fate.', 'For Karnataka, Shreyas Gopal picked up four wickets giving away eight runs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


I-League: Real Kashmir-East Bengal match moved to Delhi from Srinagar
['With the situation in the Kashmir valley continuing to be tense, the AIFF League Committee has decided to shift Thursday’s Real Kashmir-East Bengal I-League fixture to Delhi from Srinagar.', 'The call was made after Real Kashmir informed the Committee in writing that it wanted the match played at a neutral venue in view of the prevailing security situation.', 'The effect was felt on the I-League second division too, with Wednesday’s encounter between Lonestar Kashmir and Bengaluru FC-B now postponed.', 'This comes after Sunday’s match involving Lonestar and ARA was called off as security agencies refused clearance. I-League CEO Sunando Dhar, however, expressed confidence that Lonestar’s next home game on March 3 would take place as scheduled.', 'It was also decided to refer the matter pertaining to Minerva Punjab FC’s no-show in Srinagar on February 18 to the AIFF Executive Committee. Real Kashmir, on its part, maintained that the present uncertainty was not prevalent in Srinagar during the February 16 to 19 period.', 'Further, March 15 and 16 were announced as dates for the Hero Super Cup qualifiers in Bhubaneswar. The final round of the tournament will be held from March 29 to April 13 with the exact schedule set to be finalised once the AFC Cup itinerary is out.', 'The final round of the Hero Indian Women’s League will be held in May.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


I-League: Aizawl spoils East Bengal’s chances
['Aizawl FC, reduced to 10 men, played an inspired game to hold East Bengal to a 1-1 draw in their Hero I-League match at the Salt Lake Stadium on Monday.', 'The result wasn’t an ideal one for the Kolkata giant which needed a win to keep itself in the hunt for its maiden title. East Bengal is in the second spot with 33 points from 17 matches while Chennai City FC has 40 from 18.', 'Failing to get its strategy right, the host conceded an early goal when Alfred Jaryan sent a perfect cross to Leonce Dodoz.', 'The Ivorian chipped the ball over a charging East Bengal goalkeeper Rakshit Dagar.', 'The visitor could well have doubled the lead in the final minute of the opening half, but the referee disallowed Ansumana Kromah’s goal.', 'The Liberian forward came up with a smart move, screening Dagar who was trying to reach his colleagues upfront after intercepting a floater coming from the Aizawl midfield. Even as Dagar released the ball, Kroma intercepted it and slotted home only to see the referee Umesh Bora hauling him up for infringement and booking him for the offence.', 'East Bengal doubled the initiative after the break but continued to remain off-target despite creating a number of scoring opportunities. Coach Alejandro Menendez introduced the fifth foreigner in Spaniard Toni Dovale in the 57th minute, looking to spruce up the attack.', 'This gave the home attack better direction as the combination between Dovale and Samad Ali Mallick on the right provided an opportunity in the 66th minute. Dovale set it up for an overlapping Samad whose cross into the box saw Enrique Esqueda find the target.', 'Aizawl was reduced to 10 in the 70th minute when it lost defender Kareem Omolaja Nurain who was sent off for dissent after the referee had booked him for an infringement. East Bengal tried to make the most of the number advantage but failed.', 'East Bengal 1 (Enrique Esqueda 66) drew with Aizawl FC 1 (Leonce Dodoz 23).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Mindset of Indian athletes has changed’
['Charles Borromeo, the 1982 Asian Games 800m gold medallist, on the sidelines of an event here on Monday, said the performance of India’s track and field athletes in the 2018 Asian Games indicates the change in the mindset that they have the capability to win.', 'Reportedly, last year was the first time India’s track and field athletes had gone abroad to train for the Asian Games. They had gone to Thimphu (Bhutan) for high-altitude training.', 'Responding to it, he said there is healthy funding for athletics nowadays which has made it possible.', 'He added that most of the athletes now train abroad in general, and that there is a healthy competition among themselves in each discipline.', 'On looking forward to the Tokyo Olympics, he said, “Throughout 2019, they (the athletes) will be exposed to a lot of international competitions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Hima’s next paper is on Saturday (February 16) and she will come back home from Guwahati on the evening of Friday.']


Sound ball tennis camp at MSLTA
['Warming up: A player getting used to sound ball tennis at the MSLTA courts.', 'The Indian Blind Sports Association (IBSA), in collaboration with Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA), conducted a tennis coaching camp for coaches and visually challenged players recently at the MSLTA courts. The initiative was aimed at encouraging ‘sound ball’ tennis in the state.', 'Tennis is played using a specially modified ball, which makes a tinkling sound on contact with the surface. Players listen to the sound as it strikes and swing the tennis racquet according to their anticipation of the ball’s location. Eknath Khedekar, a visually challenged person who learnt to play sound tennis while studying in London, is the inspiration behind this.', 'Simon McFarland, a Tennis Ireland Level 2 (ITF Advanced) coach, conducted the camp. More than 20 players from all over India took part, along with coaches. The effort will help in participation in international sound ball tennis events.', 'McFarland was accompanied by Michael Blease, assistant coach, and Dr. Davinder Kapur, MBE. Paul Carter was present for the closing ceremony, along with Divyanshu Ganatra, founder of Beyond Barriers Foundation. Bharat Oza, president MSLTA and David Absalom, General Secretary Indian Blind Sports Association.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Kamenskiy shows  class
['No catching him: Sergiy Kamenskiy of Russia was too good for the rest of the 10m air rifle field.', 'World champion Sergiy Kamenskiy of Russia lent an elegant touch of class to take the men’s air rifle gold ahead of the Chinese in the shooting World Cup at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Monday.', 'Brilliance is often a misused word but it fitted nicely for World No. 1 Kamenskiy, the Rio Olympics silver medallist, as he was close to perfection in the climax to clinch the gold 2.4 points ahead of Chinese Liu Yunkun, the qualification topper.', 'Only after taking a 2.9 point lead did the Russian relax a bit, as he delivered a 9.8 on the penultimate shot. There was no catching up, but Liu and fourth-placed Martin Strempfl of Austria had the satisfaction of securing Olympic quota places.', 'Third-placed Chinese Hui Zicheng along with Kamenskiy had won the quota in the World Championship last year.', 'In fact, Kamenskiy had missed the gold by 0.1 point in the rifle 3-position event on Sunday, which saw third-placed Marco De Nicolo of Italy take the second quota place behind champion Istvan Peni of Hungary.', 'The Chinese have already collected four quota places in the current World Cup, to take their tally to 14. India has taken its collection to three, with the quota won by Saurabh Chaudhary in men’s air pistol.', 'Hungary has won two so far here, while Italy, Serbia and Austria have won one each. Two quota places each are available in women’s rifle 3-position and air pistol events on Tuesday.', 'As announced, the rapid fire pistol quota places have been held back to be distributed in the next World Cups, on the direction of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).', 'The Indian challenge fell short in men’s air rifle, as the young Divyansh Singh Panwar shot 627.2 and missed the final by 1.2 points. Ravi Kumar was 0.2 points further away.', 'It was the first competition for Ravi after he had undergone surgery following an injection infection on his hip recently. He missed going for competitive preparation in Europe and was forced to take bed rest for about 20 days, before resuming shooting at the preparatory camp.', 'In men’s 25m rapid fire pistol, Commonwealth Games gold medallist Anish Bhanwala shot 294 out of 300 in the precision phase, to be in third place. The rapid fire section will be shot on Tuesday, followed by the final for the top six.', 'In women’s 50m rifle elimination phase, former World Champion Tejaswini Sawant struggled to 1146 and failed to make the cut. Sunithi Chauhan (1168) and Gaayathri Nithyanandam (1166) made it to the qualification phase.', 'In the MQS section, Kajal Saini (1165) and World record holder Anjum Moudgil (1164) put up a decent performance.', 'Pankaj Kumar 620.9.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘CoA trying to be more pious than the Pope’: R.M. Lodha
['Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha.', 'Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha has taken strong exception to the members of the Committee of Administrators (CoA) venturing into areas beyond their brief.', 'The former Justice warned the game could head for trouble. “It is fortunate that the game has not been impacted by whatever is happening in the cricket administration. But the day is not far when lack of good governance may have a harmful impact on the game,” he noted.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


K.L. Rahul makes a statement on return
['Turnaround: K.L. Rahul batted with fluency on a sluggish Visakhapatnam pitch on Sunday.', 'It was not quite a match-winning effort, but K.L. Rahul should be more than a little relieved with his half-century in the first T20 International.', 'Comebacks are not always easy: the weight of expectations is often great. And when, like in this case, a player is returning from a suspension imposed for off-field acts, there is perhaps a need to feel confident on the field again. In these circumstances, his 36-ball 50 should count as a success.', 'Rahul was quickly into the groove on Sunday. He was the best of the Indian batsmen on show, and on a sluggish pitch batted with a fluency that eluded most of his colleagues.', 'He made room on the off-side, and cleared the infield, even if some of those shots did not come off the middle of the bat. And as long as he and Kohli were at the crease, India looked set for a good score.', "Over the last few weeks, Rahul may have feared that the chance to be part of India's World Cup squad had gone. After having been in and out of the one-day side over the previous years, he found a place in the ODI set-up on the Australia and New Zealand tours as India looked for a reserve opener.", 'And then came the suspension. So Rahul entered this home limited-overs series having played only three ODIs in 18 months. This fifty perhaps does not change much, but it leaves him in a good frame of mind ahead of the five one-dayers.', 'In the months after Rahul made his Test debut, having built a reputation as a composed, technically-sound opener in First Class cricket, he was at pains to point out that he was not a one-dimensional batsman.', 'Ahead of the 2016 IPL final in Bengaluru — a season in which he averaged 44 at a strike rate of 146 — he was asked if the perception that he could succeed only in the longest format had changed.', 'Three months later, he was hammering a spectacular 51-ball 110 in a T20 against West Indies at Lauderhill, becoming only the third Indian to score hundreds in all three formats of the game.', 'It was puzzling then that he slipped out of the reckoning in ODI cricket while remaining something of a regular in the Test and T20I teams. He has played only 13 ODIs, in some of which he has batted at three, four and five. His first one-day hundred, scored on ODI debut, remains his only ton in the format; he has two in T20 Internationals.', "In last year's IPL, Rahul batted like he was thoroughly enjoying himself, as he averaged nearly 55 from 14 games, going at a strike rate of 158. There is perhaps something liberating about batting in T20s.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Jhulan and Shikha fashion India’s series win
['Smiling assassin: Shikha Pandey struck in the second over to send back Amy Jones, a blow from which England never really recovered.', 'The pace duo of Jhulan Goswami and Shikha Pandey skittled out England for a paltry 161.', 'Then the stylish Smriti Mandhana, Punam Raut and Mithali Raj wielded their willows to help India score an emphatic seven-wicket win in the second ODI of the three-match ICC Women’s Championship series at the Wankhede Stadium here on Monday.', 'With Jhulan and Shikha sharing eight wickets, the home team clinched the series with the final match to be played on Thursday.', 'Jhulan has been India’s premier strike bowler for eighteen years and on Monday the world’s highest wicket-taker in ODIs, scalped four victims for the eighth time.', 'Jhulan was chosen as the Player-of-the-Match ahead of Shikha’s remarkable and career-best effort.', 'Reacting to the choice of the player of the match at the press conference, Shikha, said: “I am above all that now, I would say. It doesn’t really matter to me whether I am the Player-of-the- Match or not.', 'India took command of the proceedings after England opted to bat.', 'The 29-year-old Shikha dismissed Amy Jones in the second over and then evoked a false stroke from Tamsin Beaumont in the 14th over with Deepti Sharma converting a superb running catch at square-leg. In her second spell, she sent back Gerogia Elwiss and Katherine Brunt.', 'Jhulan removed Saray Taylor, who inside-edged the ball on to the stumps while attempting a drive, and the England skipper Heather Knight.', 'And when Natalie Sciver resorted to some bold hitting during England’s best-ever partnership for the 10th wicket, Jhulan trapped her in front to bring an end to the visitor’s innings with 39 balls remaining.', 'India lost Jemimah Rodrigues with just a run on the board, but Smriti took control of the chase with some lovely front-foot shots between cover and mid-off and added 73 with Punam Raut.', 'Smriti’s another valuable stand with Mithali Raj — 66 for the third wicket — clinched the match in under 42 overs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Tamil Nadu prevails in a dramatic finish
['Agony and ecstasy: A Tamil Nadu player consoles a crest-fallen Chirag Gandhi even as the others converge to celebrate.', 'Cricket showcases emotions of various hues. In this theatre of many protagonists, agony and ecstasy waltz side by side. Much like the dance of life.', 'The scene of contrasts at the conclusion of a low-scoring but captivating duel of fortune-swings between Tamil Nadu and Gujarat here on Monday saw both the home batsmen spreadeagled on the ground in despair while the Tamil Nadu cricketers celebrated with roars of delight after a last-gasp one-run victory.', 'The humdinger in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 competition that saw the host pursuing Tamil Nadu’s 125 for six had ended in a tragic error by Gujarat No. 11 Hardik Patel.', 'With three runs needed off the last ball, the heroic Chirag Gandhi missed a heave off seamer Abhishek Tanwar but the umpire had signalled a wide.', 'Gujarat would not only have secured an additional run but needed just one more to tie off the extra delivery.', 'However, Hardik, not noticing the umpire’s signal, set off for a run. Wicketkeeper N. Jagadeesan relayed the ball swiftly to bowler Tanwar who broke the stumps. It was all over. The thriller had exploded at the finish. Gujarat required 16 runs off the final over.', 'Tamil Nadu skipper R. Ashwin had a choice to make. Washington Sundar with his off-spin had been economical while striking twice. And he had an over left.', 'Ashwin opted for paceman Tanwar who too had been tight till that point but lacked Washington’s experience in these situations.', 'Gandhi (68 n.o., 66b, 4x4, 4x6) promptly dismissed Tanwar for sixes over cover and the straight-field. The goodly, vocal crowd was on its feet. Then came the final twist.', 'Tamil Nadu, which now has two wins from three games, defended a low score with a tigerish resolve.', 'The fielding was outstanding, the throws were on the mark and the side effected four run outs, the pick being a direct hit by substitute J. Kousik from square of the wicket to dismiss Axar Patel.', 'The skiers in the deep were held capably too and it was a big moment when C. Hari Nishanth held the influential Priyank Panchal at long-on off left-arm spinner Sai Kishore. Sai, on a surface where the ball gripped and turned, bowled well.', 'Earlier, Tamil Nadu recovered from early blows struck by the lively and straight Arzan Nagwaswalla; he trapped M. Vijay leg-before and cleaned up Hari Nishaanth after Gujarat opted to field.', 'And leg-spinner Piyush Chawla delighted with his teasing flight and two-way spin. The organised and compact N.S. Chaturved (34), the smooth-stroking Washington (33) and the brisk Jagadeesan (29 n.o.) ensured that the bowlers had something to defend.', 'And defend they did with verve.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Sheuli steals the show, bags maiden National crown in 73kg
['Delighted: Papul Changmai of Assam kissing the weights with joy after winning the men’s 81kg gold.', 'Teenage lifter Achinta Sheuli excelled in a strong field of men’s 73kg to bag his maiden National title in convincing fashion at the Railway Indoor Sports Enclave here on Monday.', 'Eighteen-year-old Sheuli, a Khelo India gold medallist last year, lifted a total of 300kg in the National weightlifting championships to underline the promise he holds for the future.', 'Experienced lifters Akshay Gaikwad and M. Rajan’s aggregates of 297kg and 292kg fetched them silver and bronze medals respectively.', 'Sheuli began with a ‘no lift’ for 132kg before doing 135kg in his final snatch attempt.', 'The confident West Bengal boy lifted 161kg in his opening clean and jerk effort and improved it by four kg to assure himself of the gold medal in the second. He could not do 168kg in his concluding try.', 'Commonwealth Games bronze medallist in 69kg Deepak Lather took the fourth place with 291kg.', 'Punam Yadav’s total of 220kg, which was two kg short of her gold medal winning performance in the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, got her the women’s 81kg crown.', 'Punam, who was “let off” by the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) following a written apology for reportedly leaving the National camp without permission last year, had a decisive lead when she registered 99kg in her final snatch attempt. Her closest competitor Seema did 97kg.', 'In clean and jerk, Punam recorded a ‘no lift’ for 121kg in her second try before lifting the same weight successfully in the third.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Joshua-Miller verbal bout gets nasty ahead of their world heavyweight title clash
['Mano A Mano: British boxer Anthony Joshua and American Jarrell Miller give each other the eye at a press conference on Monday.', 'Anthony Joshua has promised Jarrell Miller he will “strip him of his soul” when he defends his world heavyweight titles as he responded to taunts from his US challenger he was a “posh” champion.', 'British boxer Joshua will fight in the United States for the first time when he defends his IBF, WBA and WBO crowns at Madison Square Garden in the challenger’s home city of New York on June 1.', 'It will be a clash between two unbeaten boxers, with Joshua boasting a record of 21 knockouts in 22 wins compared to Miller’s mark of 23-0-1, with 20 KOs.', 'The pair had already held a testy press conference in New York last week, with Miller proclaiming Joshua a “fraud”.', 'Monday’s event was relatively restrained until Miller suggested London’s Joshua had had things “easy”.', 'Former Olympic champion Joshua has largely avoided the kind of ‘trash talk’ common in the promotion of many boxing bouts but he appeared riled on Monday, particularly when Miller said Tyson Fury was now the talk of the British heavyweight scene.', 'Miller, alongside Joshua on a stage at a hotel near London’s Heathrow Airport, said: “I’ve been hearing AJ’s too posh, his nose is up here sometimes.', 'But Joshua insisted he too had known hard times.', 'Last week Brooklyn native Miller, a former kickboxer, was adamant he would stop Joshua in seven rounds, a claim he repeated on Monday.', 'After abandoning plans to fight again at Wembley on April 13, Joshua is now trying to break in on the US market where Deontay Wilder, the WBC heavyweight champion and Fury have held sway since their controversial draw in Los Angeles in December.', 'The 29-year-old Joshua last fought in September at Wembley, stopping Russia’s Alexander Povetkin in seven rounds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Former India fast bowler Subroto Banerjee goes down memory lane
['Subroto Banerjee.', 'Subroto Banerjee has fond memories of the MRF Pace Foundation in its early days and pace legend Dennis Lillee.', 'A paceman with a fluid semi side-on release who got the ball to seam both ways and whose mantra was to “bowl smart,” Subroto made an immediate impact on his Test debut in Sydney.', 'Yet, despite his three for 47 off 18 impressive overs, Subroto never figured in another Test for India.', 'He had his moments in the ODIs, though. These included Brian Lara’s prized scalp in the dramatic tied match of the Benson & Hedges series in Perth and Graeme Hick’s wicket and a blistering late onslaught with the bat against England in the 1992 World Cup humdinger.', 'These days he is coaching Bihar after a successful stint as a bowling coach with Vidarbha that saw the side triumphing in the Ranji Trophy for the first time.', 'The man from Jamshedpur said he was pleased to be giving something back to his home State.', 'Subroto is delighted with the depth in the Indian pace bowling ranks now.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Lifetime Achievement award for Karthikeyan
['Honour: G.R. Karthikeyan receives the Lifetime Achievement award from Jean Todt. Gautam Singhania, J. Prithiviraj and Narain Karthikeyan are the others in the picture.', 'G.R. Karthikeyan, father of India’s first Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan, was honoured with the Lifetime Achievement award at the FMSCI annual awards function on Monday.', 'Raghul Rangasamy was applauded as he walked up to receive the Upcoming Motorsport Person of the Year award for the Raymond Gautam Singhania Trophy.', 'FIA president Jean Todt was the chief guest and handed over the awards.', 'Narain spoke about his father’s inspiring presence in his career and as one of the pioneers in establishing a framework for Indian motorsport.', 'Raghul, 25, earned recognition and appreciation for winning the LGB Formula 4 title in the JK Tyre FMSCI National Racing Championship and the FF 1600 category at the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Racing Championship.', 'FMSCI President J. Prithviraj spoke about the new ventures that have been planned.', 'G R Karthikeyan.', 'Raghul Rangasamy.', 'Mira Erda, Sneha Sharma, and Shriya Lohia.', 'Sohil Shah.', 'Arka Motorsports.', 'Somayya.', 'Msport.', 'Yamaha.', 'Aishwarya.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Surgical strike 2.0: IAF puts all air defence systems on high alert as fighter jets destroy terror camps across LoC
[]


Surgical strike 2.0: IAF strikes JeM terror camps across LoC
[]


Surgical strike 2.0: IAF jets drop bombs in PoK, destroy JeM terror camps
[]


IAF strikes terror camps in Pakistan — What we know so far
['Surgical strike 2.0: IAF puts ...', 'Chief BS Dhanoa reviewed the security situation on the borders after the strikes.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


5-star Balakot camp was sitting duck target for IAF, 350 terrorists killed while sleeping: Sources
['They said at least 325 terrorists and 25 to 27 trainers were at the camp, the biggest operated by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad group, which had claimed responsibility for the February 14 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, Kashmir that killed 40 jawans.', 'Everyone at the camp was sleeping and Pakistani defence establishment had no clue that the attack was coming so deep into their country because they had expected a surgical strike on camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir near the Line of Control, said the sources.', 'Fighter and other aircraft took off from several air bases in Western and Central commands at about the same time, leaving Pakistani defence officials confused as to where they were heading, the sources said. A small group of aircraft broke away from the swarm and headed to Balakot where "the sleeping terrorists were sitting ducks for the Indian bombing," said one source.', 'The terror camp is located 20 kilometres from Balakot town.', 'Balakot is some 80km from the Line of Control near Abbotabad where al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden was killed in hiding by covert US forces who had also sneaked into Pakistan to carry out the operation, catching the entire Pakistani military unawares.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Pakistan scrambled F16s to intercept IAF aircraft but abandoned seeing Indian formation
['The targets included the control rooms of Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit that carried out‚ a terror attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14 in which 40 security personnel were killed and five injured.', 'Sources also revealed that the operation was coordinated by the Western Air Command of the IAF.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Surgical strikes 2: IAF crosses LoC for the first time since 1971 war
['Even if this is the other Balakot which falls in Poonch sector along the LoC, it is the first time that IAF jets have crossed the LoC since the 1971 war. During the 1999 Kargil war, the IAF, while bombing terror outposts took care not to cross the LoC. Also, with the 2016 surgical strikes, the Modi government is the first to make such surgical strikes public. Previous governments too have retaliated but preferred to keep them under wraps from the larger public.', 'The public anger after the terror attack in Pulwama that killed 40 CRPF jawans on February 14 had put immense pressure on the Modi govt to act.', 'As per reports, IAF dropped 1,000 kg bombs on targets in Balakot, Muzafarrabad and Chakoti completely destroying many terror camps.', 'The Pakistani Army has confirmed that Indian Air Force violated Line of Control in Muzafarabad sector.', 'Indian Air Force strikes JeM t...', 'NEW DELHI: It wasn’t a question of whether India will strike back or not, but of when and the timing of the attack.', 'Pakistan on Tuesday claimed that the Indian Air Force jets crossed the Line of Control (LoC), following which the former "scrambled" immediately.', 'Even if this is the other Balakot which falls in Poonch sector along the LoC, it is the first time that IAF jets have crossed the LoC since the 1971 war. During the 1999 Kargil war, the IAF, while bombing terror outposts took care not to cross the LoC. Also, with the 2016 surgical strikes, the Modi government is the first to make such surgical strikes public. Previous governments too have retaliated but preferred to keep them under wraps from the larger public.', 'One must commend the Indian forces for not just having caught Pakistani Army off-guard but also for ensuring their coordinated attacks targeted only terror camps while avoiding civilian casualties. As both sides take stock of the situations, India had already put its defence mechanism and air bases in Jamnagar, Maliya, Ahmedabad and Vadodara in high alert and ready position.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


IAF strike in Pakistan killed 300 terrorists: Government source
['The strikes on a training camp run by the Pakistani-based terror group have dramatically escalated tensions between the two neighbours.', "In a media briefing today, foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale confirmed that Indian Air Force conducted a major preemptive strike on Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest camp early Tuesday, killing a large number of terrorists and trainers.", 'He said credible intelligence was received that the JeM was planning to carry out other suicide attacks in India after the Pulwama bombing on a CRPF convoy 12 days ago that killed 40 jawans.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Hours after air strike, Army tweets poem on being powerful
['Hours after the IAF hit terror camps inside Pakistan, the Army on Tuesday tweeted a poem by Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh \'Dinkar\'. Peace overtures, the poem says, is possible only when you are in a powerful position and capable to win. The poem said that "if you are docile and polite before the enemy, he may consider you as a coward, the way Kauravas treated Pandavas".', 'The Army on Tuesday tweeted a Hindi poem which says that "if you are docile and polite before the enemy, he may consider you as a coward, the way Kauravas treated Pandavas".', 'Peace overtures, the poem says, is possible only when you are in a powerful position and capable to win.', 'Surgical strike 2.0: Indian Ar...', "The poem by Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar' was tweeted by Additional Director General, Public Information on its official handle.", 'Peace overtures, the poem says, is possible only when you are in a powerful position and capable to win.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Surgical strike 2.0: Indian Army tweets poem after IAF destroys terror camps across LoC
[]


Kashmiri youths: ‘We were in touch with Pulwama attack mastermind’
['The two Kashmiri youths arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad from Deoband township on Sunday confessed to their links with Jaish-e-Muhammed and were possibly planning a terror strike. The two also admitted to have been in touch with Pulwama attack mastermind Abdul Rasheed Ghazi who was killed in an encounter on February 14.', 'The two Kashmiri youths arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad from Deoband confessed to their links with banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Muhammed.', 'UP ATS arrests two suspected J...', 'The duo also said they were contacted by some top commanders of JeM and joined the group on their insistence.', 'The two used to exchange messages through BBM and also used virtual numbers for talking to conceal the identity of those communicating. They will be taken to Kashmir where it is suspected they have hidden dummy grenades to train recruits.', 'Shahnawaz has completed BA first year and a computer course, while Aqib has passed class XII. Shahnawaz’s father is a carpenter and elder brother a teacher. Aqib’s father is a farmer.', 'The ATS will also interrogate other students who had stayed with the two.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Give peace a chance: Imran Khan to PM Modi
['Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday asked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to "give peace a chance" and assured him that he "stands by" his words and will "immediately act" if New Delhi provides Islamabad with "actionable intelligence" on the Pulwama attack.', 'Pak PM Imran Khan preaches pea...', 'Recalling his conversation with Khan during a congratulatory call after he became Pakistan\'s premier, Modi said he told him "let us fight against poverty and illiteracy" and Khan gave his word - saying he is a Pathan\'s son - but went back on it.', 'India said Khan\'s offer to investigate the attack if provided proof is a "lame excuse".', 'Imran Khan said during his meeting with PM Modi in December 2015, "we had agreed that since poverty alleviation is a priority for our region, we would not allow any terrorist incident to derail peace efforts, however, long before Pulwama, these efforts were derailed in September 2018".', 'The Pakistani premier was referring to India calling off the foreign minister-level talks with Pakistan in New York on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in September last year after following the "brutal" killing of three BSF jawans by Pakistani soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir as well as the release of postal stamps "glorifying" Kashmiri militant Burhan Wani by the Pakistan government.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


India, France may look beyond Azhar to rein in Jaish, outwit China
['To give teeth to the diplomatic offensive against the Pakistan-based terror group, India and France are also giving a “cautious” consideration to several other options including bringing similar proposals against Masood Azhar’s brother Abdul Rauf Asghar, an accused in the Pathankot attack, and some other individuals associated with JeM.', 'Pulwama effect: Masood Azhar g...', 'The government is preparing dossiers backed by solid evidence for a UN ban on not just Azhar but also Asghar and other acknowledged JeM terrorists, official sources here said.', 'It remains to be seen though if the names of Asghar and others are included in the proposal for inclusion of JeM leader Azhar in the UNSC 1267 sanctions list or a ban is sought on them in separate resolutions.', 'Efforts at the UN to designate other JeM commanders too as international terrorists could help India raise the ante on China which has in the past vetoed ban on Azhar claiming that there was not enough evidence against him.', 'The last time China blocked a ban on Azhar - in 2017 - India responded by saying such "selective approaches" and "double standards" would undermine the international resolve to combat terrorism. By all accounts, China is again likely to take the same position on Azhar. Beijing though could risk some embarrassment if it chooses to do the same with proposals for banning Asghar and other commanders of JeM which remains a UN-designated terrorist organisation.', 'A UNSC ban on Azhar and others will help impose targeted sanctions on these men including assets freeze, travel ban and arms embargo. For that to happen though, India must provide, as it has already done in the case of Azhar, enough evidence keeping in mind the listing criteria.', 'While the US had on the last occasion proposed a ban on Azhar, France is this time leading the efforts with help from some other European countries. Sources here said that probably having sensed the move, Pakistan had started reaching out to its own friends and allies to stall the French initiative.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?']



[]


Supreme Court to hear challenge to Article 35A from Feb 26-28: All you need to know
['Article 35 A listed for hearin...', 'There has been growing indications that the Centre is considering changing its stand of aloofness from the bid to put an end to the provision which gives the Jammu & Kashmir government the rights to confer special privileges to those whom it defines as “permanent residents” of the state. The entire Valley was in a grip of panic since the last two days amidst speculation that the government may change its stand to seek an expeditious hearing.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'What is Article 35A?', 'What is Article 35A?']


Car used in Pulwama bought 10 days before terror attack
['The NIA on Monday said the owner of the vehicle used in the Pulwama attack has been identified as Sajjad Bhat, who has joined Jaish-e-Mohammed. Piecing together the remnants of the vehicle used by the suicide bomber, NIA investigators- with the support of forensic and automobile experts- identified the vehicle used for the blast as a Maruti Eeco.', 'Pulwama attack: NIA identifies...', "Adil Ahmed Dar from Pulwama, was inspired to become a suicide bomber after the Taliban claimed victory since the US announced the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan. Minutes after the attack, Telegram channels were abuzz with two videos and a picture of a youth who claimed responsibility. The videos presented Adil's 'martyrdom' message and seemed to have been shot in advance by Jaish.", 'It subsequently exchanged hands seven times and finally reached Sajjad Bhat, son of Md Maqbool Bhat resident of Bijbehara of Anantnag district who had acquired the vehicle on February 4, 2019.', 'A raid was conducted by NIA team at his house with the help of Jammu and Kashmir Police on February 23. However, Sajjad was not present in his house and has been evading arrest since then.', 'NIA director general YC Modi, accompanied by senior officers of the agency, has visited the site of the attack, 33 km from Srinagar, where he was briefed by the police and the CRPF.', 'The state police had registered a case at the Awantipora police station on February 14 after a suicide bomber rammed his explosive-laden vehicle into a CRPF bus, which was part of a 78-vehicle convoy carrying over 2,500 personnel from Jammu to Srinagar.', 'The NIA is probing planning and execution of the terror attack, the second such strike in three decades of terrorism in the state. In 2000, terrorist had blown himself outside the Srinagar-based army cantonment, killing two Army men.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


I couldn’t become CM because I’m a Dalit: Karnataka deputy CM G Parameshwara
['At a time the coalition government faces trouble over dissatisfaction from the Congress, over conceding the CM’s post to JD(S) leader and chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, Parameshwara’s statement adds more fuel to fire ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “I am a victim of suppression," he added.', 'Earlier, Parameshwara said even Dalit Congress leaders like B Basavalingappa and KH Ranganath, and current sitting MP from Kalaburagi, Mallikarjun Kharge, missed the chance to lead the state. “All of them could have become CMs, but were victims of Dalit suppression,” he said.', 'Parameshwara said he came for the Chalavadi Mahasabha to voice his disappointment and also to seek the community’s support. The DyCM used the opportunity to state that untouchability was rampant in rural Karnataka and till now, Dalits were being prevented from entering temples, hotels and barbar shops despite the constitution guaranteeing the oppressed caste their rights.', 'He said Dalits must worship the constitution’s architect BR Ambedkar as the community’s god.', 'Shivashankarappa backed Mallikarjun Kharge as the next prime ministerial candidate.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Pulwama attack: Our bus was 3rd, we wept but were enraged too, says CRPF women
['With tears tightly held back, Shalu cuts a grim and outrageous figure at one of CRPF’s Bemina batallions in Srinagar even as her family is making arrangements for her wedding in Rajouri on March 9 this year.', 'Tribute to CRPF jawans martyre...', 'BEMINA/PULWAMA/SRINAGAR: With tears tightly held back, Shalu cuts a grim and outrage figure at one of CRPF’s Bemina batallions in Srinagar even as her family is making arrangements for her wedding in Rajouri on March 9 this year.', 'Their vehicle was third behind the bus that was blown up by Jaish-e-Mohammad suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar, killing 40 CRPF jawans.', 'While stroking the Indian tricolour pin on her jacket, Pushpa, a 38-year-old constable, regrets that she did not have the weapon when the bomber exploded the bus.', 'There are four companies of CRPF women serving in the Jammu and Kashmir region at the moment, which have been borrowed from as many battalions.', 'Between them, they guard the Shankaracharya shrine, Central Jail, international airport, high court and government offices in Srinagar.', 'A lot has changed since 1986-87 when the CRPF women battalion was raised for the first time and six women officials were recruited, who were subsequently sent to Sri Lanka. Two DIG-rank women — Nitu Bhattacharya and Annie Abraham - serve here. The challenges in Kashmir include showing resilience when youth pelt stones at their vehicles or keeping a hawk’s eye on protest rallies.', 'Each of them turns emotional as they share their bonhomie - from pipping each other in a badminton game, or teaching them how to lift a bukhari (kerosene-run heater) or shift from INSAS 5.56 mm, 9 mm carbine to AK-47 during night operations.', 'And, there are always comical arguments over the amount of sugar, milk, honey and nuts in the line barracks, mess, leading to hugs and peace at Sunday bhajans at 9 am.', 'For those among the studious variety, there are always sessions to offer their valuable suggestions on arming themselves with post-graduate degrees.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Armed man who attempted to hijack Bangladesh plane killed in commando operation: Army
['Bangladesh commandos on Sunday killed an armed man, who allegedly made a foiled bid to hijack a Dubai-bound flight of Biman Airlines carrying 148 passengers, the army said. The flight, en route Dubai from Dhaka via Chattogram, made an emergency landing at the Shah Amanat International Airport in the coastal city of Chattogram following the hijack bid.', 'Hijack attempt foiled on Dubai...', 'Army, Navy and elite police cordoned off the plane soon after it landing. All the passengers, pilots and crew members were evacuated safely.', 'According to Major General Matiur Rahman, the suspect, a Bangladeshi national identified as Mahadi, refused to surrender when asked to, forcing "the commandos to go for action (firing)", which "lasted eight minutes".', "Air force's Chattgram base commander Air Vice Marshal Mufidur Rahman, who was also present at the media briefing, said he kept the hijacker engaged in talks while special forces units prepared for the raid.", 'Meanwhile, in a press conference in Dhaka, Bangladesh Civil Aviation Authority (CAAB) chairman Air Vice Marshal Naim Hassan said the hijacker was equipped with a hand gun and explosives.', 'An investigation would be carried out to determine how the man boarded the aircraft with arms and explosives, he said.', 'According to eyewitnesses, minutes after the Flight BG-147, which was on its way to Dubai from Dhaka via Chattogram, flew from the Chattogram Shah Amanat International Airport, it returned and made an emergency landing at 5.40pm.', 'The emergency exit was opened through which the passengers disembarked immediately. The captain and the first officer of the flight also came out later, they said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Scrapping Article 35A will be a disaster: Mehbooba, Congress & Lone to Centre
['SRINAGAR: Ahead of the likely hearing in the Supreme Court this week on a petition challenging Article 35A of the Constitution, Kashmir was on the edge on Sunday with leaders of Congress, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and People’s Conference cautioning the Centre to desist from any “misadventure” to scrap the statute.', 'The concern of the mainstream parties came in the wake of a complete shutdown observed in the Kashmir valley on Sunday in response to a call given by separatist leaders in support of Article 35A. The protest call was given by separatist leaders amid reports that Centre was considering the option of promulgating an ordinance to scrap the provisions under Article 35A which gives J&K government the rights to confer special privileges to those whom it defines as “permanent residents” of the state. Among other things, the statute prevents outsiders from acquiring any immovable property in J&K and denies property rights to women if they marry people from outside the state.', 'Mufti’s warning came even as governor Satya Pal Malik’s administration tried to clear apprehensions about Article 35A, asking people “not to pay heed to rumours and exaggerate any matter that can lead to tension”. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said in Jammu that on February 11, the state government had requested SC to defer the hearing on Article 35A and its stand continues to be the same.', 'In line with the sentiments in the valley for article 35A, J&K PCC chief GA Mir said any tinkering with the special status of J&K would further alienate the people and asked BJP not to “even think about touching it” as the consequences would be “disastrous”. He said in a statement that special status granted to J&K is a settled issue and “any misadventure with regard to Article 35A would further deepen the alienation among the people, the fire of which will engulf the entire J&K state”.', 'He added that on the behest of RSS and other communal forces, BJP seems hell-bent upon tinkering with Article 35A to regain the lost ground. “You can’t achieve anything by tinkering with the special status of the state,” Mir added.', 'Former minister and People’s Conference chief Sajjad Lone cautioned the Centre saying tinkering with the constitutional provisions applicable to the state would set a dangerous trend which will have serious repercussions as far as constitutional relationship of the state with the Union is concerned.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


What is hysterical strength in biology
['This refers to the abnormal levels of strength exhibited by certain individuals during times of extreme stress. For instance, people have been reported as lifting heavy objects like cars and huge rocks when their lives were under imminent threat. Such superhuman strength is attributed to the production of a variety of hormones like cortisol and adrenaline by the human body when exposed to extreme stress, which in turn increases the overall energy level of an individual.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


More mixed events, please
['Despite making headlines worldwide, it is unlikely that the world will see a repeat of this. The future of the Hopman Cup is uncertain because the Association of Tennis Players (ATP) is planning to relaunch its World Team Cup, the ATP Cup, around the same time. This all-men’s event will serve as another springboard before the Australian Open, carry a hefty $15 million in prize money and, most importantly, contribute to player ranking points. On the other hand, despite its star performances, the Hopman Cup does not count towards rankings.', 'Of all major sports, tennis celebrates men and women competing as equals in the same major tournaments, for the same prize money, and in front of the same crowds. Apart from mixed doubles at the Grand Slams and the Olympics, the Hopman Cup is the only tournament where tennis fans can witness the best men and women players compete on the same court. It is one of those rare events that features mixed doubles as the main crowd draw. Some stellar examples from the past include Boris Becker and Steffi Graf, who played together in 1992, and Federer and Martina Hingis, who played together in 2001. This year, Federer and Belinda Bencic won. A record 1,10,364 people were in attendance and several days were sold out.', 'This is perhaps why it is surprising that the sport has decided to let it go, rather than embrace it as a huge selling point. It also points to what the sport thinks of mixed doubles. Even at Grand Slams, these matches are given little fanfare and often relegated to smaller courts. The prize for winning at Wimbledon is $1.45 million compared to $3 million for the singles winner.', 'But for fans of tennis, some of the most entertaining matches feature both men and women. They are a mixture of power and finesse, joy and unpredictability. Tennis is a gender-balanced sport. But in the last two years, three new all-men events have been introduced: the ATP Cup, the revamped Davis Cup and the Laver Cup. There is no reason why these tournaments cannot include a female or mixed doubles version. When you get your best men and women together, it is ultimately the sport that wins.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The case of Shamima Begum
['In February 2015, three British schoolgirls from East London, aged between 15 and 16, took a flight to Istanbul and then Syria. They had told their parents they were going out for a day, but they didn’t return. While their worried families went to Turkey in March to find out what happened to them, the disappearance of the girls sparked a national conversation on how young men and women in the U.K. were leaving for Syria and Iraq, often unbeknown to their families, to join the ranks of the Islamic State (IS) and other terrorist groups.', 'Giving evidence to a parliamentary committee shortly after the girls disappeared, the then Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, Mark Rowley, spelt out what appeared to be Britain’s approach: “If you have been innocently duped, you travelled to a war zone and you regretted it and you have come back, there is nothing criminal or terrorist in that. Clearly, if you have taken part in terrorism... then we are going to do everything we can to make sure you face the consequence of that through the criminal justice process.” Britain has been contending with the issue of returnees for some time now. The government believes that of the 900 individuals who travelled to Syria and Iraq to join forces such as the IS, 40% have returned to the U.K., 20% have died, and 40% remain in the region.', 'The story created an uproar in Britain; tabloids raged at her “unrepentant” attitude. The government swiftly ratcheted up its response. While the Security Minister initially insisted that no British lives would be put at risk to “go looking for terrorists or former terrorists in a failed state,” it soon emerged that the authorities were determined to withdraw Begum’s British citizenship. Under the British Nationality Act of 1981, the Secretary of State has the power to deprive a person of citizenship on the grounds that it is “conducive to the public good” and that the person would not be rendered stateless. The government believes that Begum either currently holds Bangladeshi citizenship or is eligible to apply for one. Begum and the Bangladesh government deny that she holds dual citizenship, and Bangladesh has even firmly said that there is “no question of her being allowed to enter into Bangladesh.” This suggests that Home Secretary Sajid Javid’s decision to strip Begum of her citizenship would render her stateless. Her family is considering legal options to challenge this decision. While deploring her conduct and comments to the media, her sister wrote in a letter to Mr. Javid that it is not possible for the family to abandon her either.', 'To many others, this has highlighted the dangerous trajectory of British politics, where citizenship and the concept of belonging are under threat, and at the mercy of a capricious political system. Britain’s attitude to migrants has already been under great scrutiny over its treatment of the Windrush generation (Commonwealth citizens who were invited to Britain between 1948 and 1971 to help rebuild the country after World War II, and were wrongly treated as illegal immigrants and some even deported). The Begum controversy highlights how only those with foreign roots are at the risk of losing citizenship. A white Brit without foreign ancestry would have no recourse to other countries and would therefore not be stripped of her citizenship. This makes the situation particularly discriminatory.', 'It raises other ethical questions. One Conservative MP asked in Parliament: “In removing British citizenship, the Home Secretary is essentially saying, ‘She’s somebody else’s problem’, but... ‘Which other country is supposed to look after her on our behalf? Can you imagine the fury here if we took a French or Italian citizen who joined Islamic State?’” Others wonder about leaving a young woman, who could potentially do harm or radicalise others, in Syria, a country without resources and vulnerable to terrorist activity.', 'What Begum did during her time with the ‘Caliphate’ and the extent to which she continues to sympathise with the IS is not known. The fact that she admitted to having no regrets is hardly a surprise given that she remains in a refugee camp that is home to many IS sympathisers. But if the starting point is to just go with the punitive instinct of an angry public and deprive a young woman, who was potentially brainwashed as a minor, of her fundamental rights, it is a dangerous time for democracy, due process and the rule of law.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


When India-Pakistan animosity was pushed to the back burner
['Since the time of its inception in 1930, All India Radio (AIR) has broadcast interviews, public addresses, conversations, and music. Senior officials often speak about the invaluable treasures in AIR’s archives and narrate the most fascinating stories. One that has stayed with me is about Saadat Hasan Manto. Manto apparently scribbled stories on paper napkins, which are in AIR’s possession. I dream of seeing those paper napkins some day.', 'Almost every single artist has sung in AIR studios. I heard that veteran singer Gangubai Hangal was made to wait at the gates of AIR before being allowed to enter its studios for a recording. Much as I wish she had not been made to wait, I have also heard about how, much before television, when AIR ruled the roost, its studios played host with generosity. A newly independent country wished to preserve its cultural diversity, and AIR was the patron saint for one and all.', 'Along with the archival material, which is accessible to journalists, came the problem of storing the spools of recordings in a temperature-controlled environment. Some rare recordings were erased to make way for new public speakers, and these made news.', 'But what I was looking for six years ago were the rare Muhammad Ali Jinnah tapes — two public speeches made on August 11 and 14, 1947. As with AIR recordings, there was a back story to Jinnah’s original tapes on spools (the speeches are now available on YouTube). I was told that the original spool recordings were buried in the vaults of AIR. I was also aware that Pakistan wanted the original tapes of their Quaid-e-Azam’s address.', 'The story goes that two south Indian engineers (most of the engineering staff then were recruited from south India for their technical skills) were dispatched to Pakistan to record Jinnah’s address as there were no recording facilities in Lahore and Peshawar then. Here is where things get a little muddled. Apparently, the engineers came back with the recordings, but the recordings got misplaced in the chaos that followed Partition. While Pakistan insisted that India had the tapes, India countered this saying that it didn’t have the August 11 recording. This had Jinnah’s speech about how all faiths would enjoy equal treatment in the new country.', 'After I chased officials at AIR for eight long months, they made available the August 14 recording, which was later returned to Pakistan amidst much fanfare. A public-spirited individual had also filed a request under the Right to Information Act to make public the Jinnah recordings. What AIR also had was another recording of June 3, 1947, a brief talk by Jinnah in Delhi. This was not the ‘multi-faith’ address.', 'There was much bonhomie on display as India too made a request for some rare recordings of its filmstars, Prithviraj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar, from Pakistan to be returned to its archives. On display was a common legacy where two public service broadcasters promised to share treasures from the past. And for a brief moment in time, animosity was pushed to the back burner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Re-imagining Delhi
['Urban problems are not urban in isolation; they are national problems. Cities are in need of duly empowered municipalities and institutional systems and processes for closely coordinated and accountable agencies that can deliver in areas such as sanitation, health, education, mobility and housing.', 'With a plethora of elected and other agencies, the governance structure for Delhi is in need of a drastic remake. In addition to 272 councillors in three municipalities, 70 MLAs, and seven MPs, there is the New Delhi Municipal Council for the cloistered Lutyens’ zone, and the Cantonment Board, not to talk of the Union government controlling land and policing. Too many intervening institutions, often with overlapping jurisdictions and sometimes contradictory goals, make for suboptimal outcomes.', 'The mega-scale migration is Delhi’s special challenge. Migration has steadily risen over the decades. With people pouring into the city and cars on to roads, the outlook for the environment looks grim. Delhi generates over 5,000 tonnes of refuse every day. In a way, Delhi is hailed as the country’s pampered child. Its annual per capita income of ₹3.29 lakh (2017-18), which is almost thrice the national average. According to the 2011 Census, of a total of 3.34 million households in Delhi, 3.31 million had electricity, 2.62 million had safe drinking water, and 2.99 million had toilet facilities. Even so, the city has more than 200,000 homeless people and almost half of its population is in slums and unauthorised colonies.', 'High wages with little accountability for actual service delivery make public sector agencies an obvious target for patronage hiring. It also results in massive over-staffing. We need privatisation of civic delivery services like cleaning of roads and drains.', 'Conservancy services deserve a senior-level exclusive administration. Waste management demands professionalism and technology. The use of biotechnology should help in the treatment and disposal of waste; information technology in city planning and service delivery options; energy saving and cleaner technologies in urban transport; and high-tech, low-cost materials in building and housing. Technology can be used to implement user-based charges for access to roads, electricity and water. Economies of scale can be achieved by sharing service areas such as billing and tariff collections, cable laying and maintenance.', 'China envisions three big urban clusters — along the Pearl River, the Yangtze River, and the Beijing-Tianjin corridor — each with 50 million people or more. The National Capital Region, aiming to relieve pressure on Delhi, needs to be similarly treated as a Common Economic Zone, with a rationalised inter-State tax structure, uniform financial/banking services, telecom facilities and power supply, an integrated education and health policy, rail and road transport network, water supply and drainage system.', 'It is not a case of a lack of funds, but of governance and delivery. In most cities, municipalities are viewed as dens of corruption and inaction. Inspectors do not inspect, they only extort. A structured, mandatory inspection system is necessary for effective delivery. Councillors and commissioners don’t regularly move around their wards; they remain inaccessible to people.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The correct prescription
['Prashant Reddy T.', 'Prashant Reddy T.', 'Amid a slew of conflicting judicial decisions from different High Courts, the legality of e-pharmacies continues to be questioned by various trade associations such as the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). It represents 8.4 lakh pharmacists who run the brick and mortar pharmacies in neighbourhoods across India.', 'E-pharmacies, which operate through websites or smartphone apps on the Internet, offer medicines for sale at a discount of at least 20% when compared to traditional pharmacists, with the added convenience of home delivery of medicines to one’s doorstep. For scheduled drugs, patients can submit photographs of prescriptions while placing orders. Despite operating in India for at least four years now, the legal status of these e-pharmacies is not clear because the government is yet to notify into law draft rules that it published in 2018.', 'The fiercest opponents of e-pharmacies are trade associations of existing pharmacists and chemists. They argue that their livelihoods are threatened by venture capital backed e-pharmacies and that jobs of thousands are on the line. Apart from these obvious arguments, these trade associations also spin imaginary tales of how e-pharmacies will open the door to drug abuse and also the sale of sub-standard or counterfeit drugs, thereby threatening public health. There is enough evidence on record to demonstrate how existing pharmacies contribute generously to drug abuse and sale of sub-standard medicine. There is no reason to suspect that e-pharmacies are going to worsen the situation in anyway.', 'The more prudent way of looking at the entry of e-pharmacies is competition and the resultant effect it will have on lowering the price of medicine for Indian patients. Viewed from this perspective, there is virtually no doubt that e-pharmacies should be allowed to operate because the history of India’s trade associations of pharmacists is one of rampant, unabashed cartelisation that has resulted in an artificial inflation of medicine prices.', 'In a fully functional, competitive market, pharmacists would compete with each other for business. This competition could happen in the form of discounts or improving operational efficiency. For example, if two retailers buy a medicine from a wholesaler at ₹50 and the maximum retail price of the drug is ₹75, they are free to sell it at ₹70 or ₹65 or even ₹51. The seller with the lower price gets more customers and can make more profits. However, if both sellers enter into an agreement with each other to sell the drug at ₹75 and they also clearly define the geographical area within which they are operating, they both make higher profits but at the cost of the patient who now has to pay higher prices.', 'This practice of two competitors colluding to fix the sale price and area of operation is called cartelisation, and is illegal under India’s Competition Act. The premise of this law is that a free market is efficient only if all sellers are competing with each other to offer the lowest price to the customer.', 'Over the last decade, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has had to deal with several complaints alleging that trade associations of pharmacists are providing platforms for cartelisation where pharmacists are basically rigging the market. In simple terms, this means that pharmacists, who should otherwise be competing with each other to offer lower prices for their customers, prefer to enter into agreements with each other to fix the price at which they will sell medicines to patients. Once all parties are on the same page, there is no reason to compete with each other and reduce prices.', 'A second, more insidious strategy is the practice of requiring pharmaceutical companies to apply for a no-objection-certificate (NOC) from the regional trade association before they appoint new stockists in a region to sell a particular drug. This has the effect of artificially restricting competition in certain markets because more stockists mean more competition. By creating such artificial, extra-legal barriers to the free trade of medicines within India, these trade associations create huge distortions in the Indian market. It is suspected that these practices continue despite multiple restraining orders by the CCI.', 'In its recent policy note on “Making markets work for affordable healthcare”, published in October 2018, the CCI noted, “One major factor that contributes to high drug prices in India is the unreasonably high trade margins.” One of the culprits for this phenomenon identified by the CCI was “self-regulation by trade associations [which] also contributes towards high margins as these trade associations control the entire drug distribution system in a manner that mutes competition”.', 'Where the state has failed, it is possible that venture capitalist backed e-pharmacists will succeed in bringing back competition to the retail drug markets in India. There is no reason for India to continue indulging trade associations that have no taste for competition or fair business practices.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Coalition of the concerned
['In the wake of the Pulwama attack on February 14, the government has iterated once again its plan for the “diplomatic isolation” of Pakistan. The idea, which was first articulated after the 2016 Uri attacks, is a non-starter, as was underlined by the visit of the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman to both countries earlier this month, just a few days after Pulwama. In Pakistan, the Prince called himself “Pakistan’s Ambassador” in his country, and issued a joint statement praising Pakistan for its fight against terrorism. Clearly, a more considered diplomatic strategy, less full of rhetoric, must be chalked out by the government in response to cross-border terrorism.', 'To begin with, the government would do better to repackage its idea of “isolating Pakistan” into one of building a more inclusive ‘coalition against terrorism emanating from Pakistan’. In the past couple of weeks alone, Iran and Afghanistan have faced terror attacks on their security forces along the border with Pakistan — and several other countries, which have also faced such attacks or see the presence of Pakistan-based groups on their soil, would be willing to join ranks on this. The truth is, in today’s interconnected world, it is vainglorious to expect countries to join a unilateral plan for isolation.', 'Despite the U.S.’s considerable might, it has been unable to get most countries, including India, to sever ties with Iran and North Korea, for example. The impact of such a campaign is also doubtful: after years of trying to isolate North Korea, the U.S. is pursuing talks with its leader. While isolation might work as a campaign slogan for domestic audiences, it is quickly rebuffed each time a country engages with the nation one is trying to isolate. An inclusive coalition is more likely to move nations at the global stage as well. The success of the efforts led by the U.S. and other countries to ‘grey list’ Pakistan at the Financial Action Task Force or of French efforts for a United Nations Security Council statement on Pulwama points to that.', 'Second, India must focus on the case against Masood Azhar, which pre-dates the case against 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed. In a first, the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) claimed responsibility for the Pulwama attack in a suicide bomber video that has not thus far been disputed by its leader Masood Azhar. Azhar has been on the U.S.’s radar since 1992, when he was a leader of the banned terror group Harkat ul-Ansar, and worked with jihadi groups in Sudan and Bangladesh. His release after years in Indian prisons in exchange for hostages on board the IC-814 flight should on its own merit his banning and prosecution — not just in Pakistan, but in all the countries whose nationals were on board that Indian Airlines flight, as well as the stops that flight made: in Nepal, the United Arab Emirates and Afghanistan.', 'Third, India must prepare for a pushback from Pakistan, most likely in terms of internationalising the Kashmir issue, and linking it to progress in Afghanistan. This is what Pakistan’s Ambassador to Afghanistan, Zahid Nasrullah, did when he said that any attack by India would “impact the momentum” of the peace talks in Afghanistan. His words were heard beyond Kabul, in Washington and Moscow. On February 18, members of the Taliban negotiating team were due to meet U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad in Islamabad. The talks were called off after Afghanistan objected to the Taliban team’s travel to Pakistan, and rescheduled for February 25 in Doha. It remains to be seen how much countries trying to negotiate with the Taliban will need Pakistan’s leverage to make progress on those talks. U.S. President Donald Trump sees them as the precursor for plans to pull out most troops in combat in Afghanistan before his re-election bid for 2020.', 'Next, the government must prioritise action over words, when it comes to moves against Pakistan’s sponsorship and hosting of the JeM. The measures taken thus far — cancelling Most Favoured Nation status, maximising use of Indus waters, denying visas to Pakistani sportspersons, etc. — have little real impact on Pakistan and certainly none on the military establishment. Instead of priding itself on extracting statements of condemnation from various governments in the world, it is better for New Delhi to use India’s considerable diplomatic leverage to ensure action that would shut down the JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) permanently and bring their leaders to justice. In this regard, mere statements and bans have not worked for more than two decades, and the government must consider other options, especially with the countries that carry the most leverage and access in Pakistan: China, the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.', 'It is puzzling that the U.S. has been able to carry out drone strikes on a whole host of terror group leaders on Pakistan’s western front, but never once targeted camps and infrastructure belonging to the JeM and the LeT, despite their well-established links to al-Qaeda. India must also press the U.S. to place travel sanctions on specific entities in the Pakistani military establishment unless visible action is taken against the JeM, whose leaders hold public rallies and issue videos threatening India.', 'Contrary to popular perception, the Trump administration’s moves to cancel funds to Pakistan last year is not the toughest action the U.S. has contemplated: in May 1992, then U.S. President George H.W Bush had directed his Secretary of State James Baker to send a stern letter to then Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif threatening to designate Pakistan as a “State sponsor of Terror” for its support to Kashmiri and Sikh militant groups.', 'A similar line of talks must be pursued by New Delhi with Riyadh — which once was a donor to Pakistan’s Islamist institutions, but now is wary of funding extremism — to withhold any funds that may trickle down to charitable wings run by the JeM and LeT. With China, it is surprising that the issue of a simple ban at the UN Security Council has not been made India’s chief demand from Beijing. It is hoped that this will be rectified soon when the next proposal to ban Azhar is brought to the UNSC, and during Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj’s visit to China this week for the trilateral Russia-India-China meeting. More than the ban, however, India must ask China for action against any entities dealing with the JeM in Pakistan, given that China is the partner with the most influence in Pakistan today, and one with the most to lose from terror groups in Punjab operating along the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.', 'Finally, India must look to its own actions on the diplomatic front with Pakistan. Calling off a formal dialogue process for more than a decade has clearly yielded no desired outcome. South Asia as a region, and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) process too have suffered the consequences of this disengagement, without yielding any desired outcomes. A measured, steady and non-political level of dialogue is a more effective way of impressing India’s determination to root out terrorism than the present on-again, off-again policy. As the nation prepares for a possible military response to the Pulwama attack, it is important that New Delhi consider its diplomatic response carefully, particularly taking into account both the historical and regional context of its moves.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Srinagar descends into confusion, panic
['A slew of “urgent” measures taken by the central government, including massive deployment of additional paramilitary forces and a crackdown against pro-Pakistan organization Jamat-e-Islami, fueled speculation that the Centre was going to scrap the article through an ordinance. Article 35A bars people from outside J&K from buying or owning property or settling permanently.', 'J&K: Will Centre repeal Articl...', 'Jamat-e-Islami.', 'There are indications that it may change its stand to seek an expeditious hearing. In fact, sources said the government is also considering the option of promulgating an ordinance to scrap the provision which is key to the endurance of the “special status” provided to the state through Article 370 of the Constitution.', 'Late night on Friday, police arrested dozens of Jamat leaders including its chief Dr Abdul Hamid Fayaz and all the office bearers. The Jamaat leaders were picked up from several places across the valley, including Anantnag, Pahalgam, Dialgam and Tral in south Kashmir.', 'Srinagar district magistrate announced the imposition of restrictions on the movement of people in several localities in old Srinagar city in the wake of shut down call given by the separatist leaders. Police also sent out an advisory to “all protected dignitaries” to curtail their movement.', 'J&K government also ordered all the public health chief medical officers to urgently procure drugs and other supplies in all the districts. The leave of all government employees and consultants was also cancelled. In two other orders, the government asked the public distributors to complete the sale of food-grains by the evening and ration fuel supplies and prevent hoarding.', 'While some officials in Srinagar said all the orders were routine, some said the measures were taken in connection with the upcoming parliamentary polls.', 'Interestingly, People’s Conference president Sajad Lone, who has been accused of toeing the BJP line in Kashmir, criticized the government over the arrests. “Gov seems to be on an arrest spree. Just a word of caution. Large scale arrests took place in 1990. Leaders were ferried to Jodhpur and many jails across the country. Things worsened. This is a tried tested and failed model. Please desist from it. It won’t work. Things will worsen,” he tweeted.', 'J&K: Will Centre repeal Article 35A?', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?']


Give peace a chance: Imran Khan to PM Modi
['Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday asked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to "give peace a chance" and assured him that he "stands by" his words and will "immediately act" if New Delhi provides Islamabad with "actionable intelligence" on the Pulwama attack.', 'Pak PM Imran Khan preaches pea...', 'Recalling his conversation with Khan during a congratulatory call after he became Pakistan\'s premier, Modi said he told him "let us fight against poverty and illiteracy" and Khan gave his word - saying he is a Pathan\'s son - but went back on it.', 'India said Khan\'s offer to investigate the attack if provided proof is a "lame excuse".', 'Imran Khan said during his meeting with PM Modi in December 2015, "we had agreed that since poverty alleviation is a priority for our region, we would not allow any terrorist incident to derail peace efforts, however, long before Pulwama, these efforts were derailed in September 2018".', 'The Pakistani premier was referring to India calling off the foreign minister-level talks with Pakistan in New York on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in September last year after following the "brutal" killing of three BSF jawans by Pakistani soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir as well as the release of postal stamps "glorifying" Kashmiri militant Burhan Wani by the Pakistan government.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


I couldn’t become CM because I’m a Dalit: Karnataka deputy CM G Parameshwara
['At a time the coalition government faces trouble over dissatisfaction from the Congress, over conceding the CM’s post to JD(S) leader and chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, Parameshwara’s statement adds more fuel to fire ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “I am a victim of suppression," he added.', 'Earlier, Parameshwara said even Dalit Congress leaders like B Basavalingappa and KH Ranganath, and current sitting MP from Kalaburagi, Mallikarjun Kharge, missed the chance to lead the state. “All of them could have become CMs, but were victims of Dalit suppression,” he said.', 'Parameshwara said he came for the Chalavadi Mahasabha to voice his disappointment and also to seek the community’s support. The DyCM used the opportunity to state that untouchability was rampant in rural Karnataka and till now, Dalits were being prevented from entering temples, hotels and barbar shops despite the constitution guaranteeing the oppressed caste their rights.', 'He said Dalits must worship the constitution’s architect BR Ambedkar as the community’s god.', 'Shivashankarappa backed Mallikarjun Kharge as the next prime ministerial candidate.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Fire guts 300 cars hour after Surya Kiran lifted spirits with return
['The fire itself was well away from the actual venue of the show, thus not compromising overall safety. All available fire fighting services, Rapid Action Force and NDRF teams were immediately mobilised.', 'Bengaluru: Dozens of cars in p...', 'The spirit that SKAT had raised in the morning was dampened temporarily by the incident at 11.55am, making way for anxiety and confusion. Emotions ran high too, with several people worried about their vehicles, while some didn’t know where they had parked theirs.', 'But the fire itself was well away from the actual venue of the show, on the other side of Ballari Road, thus not compromising overall safety. “The fire was brought under control by deploying more than 12 fire fighting vehicles. The cause of the fire was not immediately known,” an official statement issued here read. It took emergencies rescue and fire department personnel more than two hours to douse the fire.', 'The fire department officially said: “Grass fire spread to some vehicles parked near Gate 5.” Although even the fire department is yet to officially determine the cause of the fire, there are two theories being probed: That an unextinguished cigarette butt may have caused it, or that, a short circuit in one of the cars led to the fire.', 'Officials and standersby said that the second car that caught fire was powered by CNG and that it exploded amplifying the spread of fire.', 'Anupam Banerjee said that the show would go on Sunday, and that the public must not heed to rumours about its cancellation.', 'All such rumour came from outside the venue, and multiple officials TOI spoke with also reiterated Banerjee’s statement.', 'Black smoke enveloped a portion of Yelahanka Air Force Station on the far right, minutes after an accidental fire around noon spread indiscriminately. Given the nature of the show, curious visitors at the main venue, far away from the fire, suspected a plane crash, even as officials allayed fears.', 'Tens of people began rushing towards the billowing smoke, little worried and more curious. Within minutes of the incident, it became clear that dry grass at the parking lot had caught fire and was spreading. “IF the cars didn’t catch fire, the situation could have been under control,” an official said.', 'In fact, a minor fire had broken out at the same parking lot on Thursday, and was brought under control. “It was just a grass fire,” the organisers had said, brushing aside concerns.', 'On Saturday, the fire broke even as the morning flying display was going on. And, the smoke became thicker when badminton star PV Sindhu took to the skies in a Tejas.', 'As the news spread across the air station—with more people checking the phones after the flying display—concern about their vehicles rented the air. Women were found crying, men scampering across the venue to find the right official to get information was common sight.', 'Another man was found complaining to a BSF constable who had one of the exits from the main venue secured, not allowing people to pass by. “Will you ensure my car is OK, I have all my relevant documents there, which are crucial to claim insurance,” the middle-aged man said.', 'There were tens of such cases, several even losing their cool and getting into verbal fights with officials. “The problem was that people were unwilling to believe us when we said that all areas other than P5 were fine. They had to see for themselves, but letting so many people out and allowing them inside again would have led to logistical issues so far as security arrangements were concerned,” a CISF official told TOI.', 'By 12.45pm, the message became more clear with multiple messages and tweets from the fire department and the organisers of Aero India. Cars belonging to more than 90% of the visitors—the organisers couldn’t immediately confirm the actual footfall—remained safe.', 'By lunch time, the venue regained normalcy, even as drama prevailed at the fire site. The food courts were full, stalls had hundreds of people getting in and out, and the afternoon display began at 1.48pm, 12 minutes earlier than the start time scheduled for flying display.', 'By around 2pm the viewing area was full of people, some taking shelter under plane wings, some hiding behind stalls, but most of them trying to capture flying planes on their mobile cameras.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


PM Narendra Modi inaugurates National War Memorial, slams previous govts for putting 'family first'
['Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the National War Memorial and slammed the previous governments for delaying the project to honour India\'s bravehearts. Slamming the previous Congress-led UPA government, PM Modi said, "For some people it is family first and not India first.', 'PM inaugurates National War Me...', "The PM hit out at opposition's desperation to block the Rafale deal and said despite all their efforts, the Rafale fighter jets will soon fly over India's skies.", 'Listing out various schemes and measures that the NDA government has taken for the forces, PM Modi slammed the opposition for neglecting the basic needs of the soldiers.', 'The delay by previous governments in construction of national war memorial was an injustice to families of fallen soldiers, he said.', 'The Prime Minister said crucial decisions related to defence procurement and strengthening the armed forces were pending but his government cleared them on priority basis.', 'Addressing the ex-servicemen, he said the government will set up three super-specialty hospitals for them.', 'Taking a dig at the previous governments, he said, "In 2009, 1,86,000 bulletproof jackets were demanded by forces. From 2009 to 2014, no provision was made for buying these jackets. It is our government that bought more than 2,30,000 bulletproof jackets for the forces.', "The PM dedicated the memorial by lighting the flame positioned at the bottom of the stone-made obelisk. Rose petals were showered by IAF helicopters and a fly-past in 'Missing Man' formation was also part of the event.", "The central part of the sprawling complex has been built in a sunken plot as the design had to respect the heritage look of the India Gate's Central Vista, officials said.", 'The names of 25,942 battle casualties have been inscribed across 16 walls that consist of granite pieces bearing the name, rank and regiment of the fallen heroes, the officials said, adding that it was built between February last year and this February in "record time".', "Besides, the main complex, a Param Yoddha Sthal has also been built on the northern side of the India Gate's C-Hexagon area. The park is dotted with bronze busts of the 21 awardees, fifteen posthumously, of the Param Veer Chakra, country's highest wartime gallantry medal.", 'The India Gate itself is a war memorial built during the British Raj as the All India War Memorial Arch to honour the soldiers who died in the First World War (1914-1918) and the Third Anglo-Afghan War (1919). The landmark has the names of soldiers inscribed on its surface.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


PM Modi launches kisan scheme, over 1 crore farmers get 1st instalment
['Launching the scheme from Uttar Pradesh\'s Gorakhpur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the first instalment of money has been deposited in accounts of 1.01 crore farmers and those who didn\'t get it on Sunday will get it in due course. "This is your money and no one will be able to take it from you," he told the farmers.', 'Govt to roll out PM-KISAN sche...', 'Initiating the electronic transfer of Rs 2,000 each, he said the first instalment of money under the scheme has been deposited in accounts of 1.01 crore farmers and those who have been left out will get it soon.', 'The Prime Minister also interacted with a select group of farmers, representing different states, through video-conferencing and took a swipe at his political rivals.', "The Prime Minister started his speech by chanting 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' and said that for his government, the Rs 75,000 crore scheme is not an election promise. He said he talked about it in Parliament only after making budgetary allocations for it.", 'The Prime Minister urged the farmers to beware of any trap and rumours stressing "this is your money and it will not be taken back".', 'The Prime Minister said his government was working with complete honesty to provide all possible resources to help farmers double their incomes by 2022.', 'There is no role of middleman in this scheme, he said.', 'This scheme has been made foolproof and will be implemented with complete transparency, Modi said and asked state governments to come forward with list of farmers who would be its beneficiaries.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Kashmiri youths: ‘We were in touch with Pulwama attack mastermind’
['The two Kashmiri youths arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad from Deoband township on Sunday confessed to their links with Jaish-e-Muhammed and were possibly planning a terror strike. The two also admitted to have been in touch with Pulwama attack mastermind Abdul Rasheed Ghazi who was killed in an encounter on February 14.', 'The two Kashmiri youths arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad from Deoband confessed to their links with banned terror outfit Jaish-e-Muhammed.', 'UP ATS arrests two suspected J...', 'The duo also said they were contacted by some top commanders of JeM and joined the group on their insistence.', 'The two used to exchange messages through BBM and also used virtual numbers for talking to conceal the identity of those communicating. They will be taken to Kashmir where it is suspected they have hidden dummy grenades to train recruits.', 'Shahnawaz has completed BA first year and a computer course, while Aqib has passed class XII. Shahnawaz’s father is a carpenter and elder brother a teacher. Aqib’s father is a farmer.', 'The ATS will also interrogate other students who had stayed with the two.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


I'll be back: PM Modi in last Mann Ki Baat of term
["Prime Minister Narendra Modi signed off on the last episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' before the Lok Sabha elections, expressing confidence that he would be back to renew the programme in May and looked forward to several years of conversations with the public.", 'Mann Ki Baat: Will be back in ...', 'On Sunday, the PM said healthy democratic traditions demanded he should discontinue \'Mann Ki Baat\' till the elections conclude, but made it clear that he expected to be back in office. "With the power of your blessings, once again I shall begin this series of conversations through \'Mann Ki Baat\'... and shall keep doing \'Mann Ki Baat\' with you for years," he said.', 'The decision to suspend the radio talk fits in with the expected announcement of Lok Sabha poll dates in the first week of March. In the 2014 election, polls were announced on March 5. After announcement of poll dates, the model code of conduct will come into effect, restricting use of public resources, which was acknowledged by the PM.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


India, France may look beyond Azhar to rein in Jaish, outwit China
['To give teeth to the diplomatic offensive against the Pakistan-based terror group, India and France are also giving a “cautious” consideration to several other options including bringing similar proposals against Masood Azhar’s brother Abdul Rauf Asghar, an accused in the Pathankot attack, and some other individuals associated with JeM.', 'Pulwama effect: Masood Azhar g...', 'The government is preparing dossiers backed by solid evidence for a UN ban on not just Azhar but also Asghar and other acknowledged JeM terrorists, official sources here said.', 'It remains to be seen though if the names of Asghar and others are included in the proposal for inclusion of JeM leader Azhar in the UNSC 1267 sanctions list or a ban is sought on them in separate resolutions.', 'Efforts at the UN to designate other JeM commanders too as international terrorists could help India raise the ante on China which has in the past vetoed ban on Azhar claiming that there was not enough evidence against him.', 'The last time China blocked a ban on Azhar - in 2017 - India responded by saying such "selective approaches" and "double standards" would undermine the international resolve to combat terrorism. By all accounts, China is again likely to take the same position on Azhar. Beijing though could risk some embarrassment if it chooses to do the same with proposals for banning Asghar and other commanders of JeM which remains a UN-designated terrorist organisation.', 'A UNSC ban on Azhar and others will help impose targeted sanctions on these men including assets freeze, travel ban and arms embargo. For that to happen though, India must provide, as it has already done in the case of Azhar, enough evidence keeping in mind the listing criteria.', 'While the US had on the last occasion proposed a ban on Azhar, France is this time leading the efforts with help from some other European countries. Sources here said that probably having sensed the move, Pakistan had started reaching out to its own friends and allies to stall the French initiative.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?']


Don't know which flag people of J&K will pick: Mehbooba Mufti warns Centre on Article 35A
['The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said that Article 35A is a matter of right, not a privilege.', 'Mufti warns NDA over Article 3...', 'The Supreme Court has listed the challenge to Article 35A of the Constitution for hearing from February 26 to 28.', "Earlier, NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said any tampering with Jammu and Kashmir's special status would have serious and far-reaching consequences in the state.", 'There has been growing indication that the Centre is considering to change its stand of aloofness from the bid to put an end to the provision which gives the Jammu & Kashmir government the rights to confer special privileges to those whom it defines as “permanent residents” of the state.', 'The entire Valley has been in a grip of panic since the last two days amidst speculation that the government may change its stand to seek an expeditious hearing in the matter.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elaborate arrangements made for Intermediate exams tomorrow
['Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned private junior colleges in the state against withholding hall tickets of students with regard to the Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled for February 27, on the pretext of unpaid fees.', 'Secretary of the Board A. Ashok has threatened the managements with serious action if they were found resorting to such tactics.', 'Students who have not got their hall tickets as yet may download the same from the Board’s website starting from 4 p.m. on Monday. An exam centre locator App was launched at the same time.', 'A total of 9,42,719 students are set to appear for the exams this year; 4,52,550 for first year and 4,90,169 for second year.', 'In the General category, 4,09,090 are from the first year, and 3,82,996 from second year. A total of 43,460 are attending the first year Vocational, and 35,780 the second year Vocational, in the regular category, while 68,375 are appearing privately for second year General, and 3,018 for Vocational.', 'Of the 1,277 examination centres, 40 are self centres, where students will be allowed to write the exam in their own college for want of logistical convenience, Mr. Ashok said at a press conference on Monday.', 'A total of 24,508 invigilators will be deployed for the exams. Two hundred sitting squads have been deployed at the problematic centres, while 50 flying squads comprising members from Education, Police and Revenue departments, will conduct surprise checks to prevent malpractice. Exam observers too will visit the centres for surprise checks.', 'Photocopy shops near the exam centres will be closed during exam hours, 9 a.m. to 12 noon. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the centres, and question papers should be opened only in the visibility range of the cameras. A district-level high power committee with district collector as chairman and Superintendent of Police and others as members have been constituted, apart from District Examination Committees, for smooth conduct of exams.', 'The centres will be guarded by the police, and Section 144 CrPC will be imposed around the location.', 'RTC authorities have been requested to reschedule their services to suit the exam hours, and Electricity department, for uninterrupted power supply. Drinking water and medical facilities have been provided at the centres.', 'Candidates have been instructed to enter the examination hall by 8.45 a.m., and fill in the OMR details by 9 a.m. Fifteen minutes grace time will be permitted, and no candidate will be allowed inside after 9 a.m., nor will be allowed to go out before 12 noon, Mr. Ashok cautioned.', 'Cell phones, electronic gadgets, pagers, calculators, or any kind of printed/written material will not be allowed inside the hall.', 'Criminal cases will be booked against candidates resorting to copying, malpractice, or impersonation, and will be debarred, Mr. Ashok warned. A control room will function with the numbers 040-24601010 and 24732369 where complaints can be made if any.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


English language expo celebrates Indian writers
['Students of Paramita High School here organised a unique expo on Monday to showcase a mosaic of components of English language to commemorate the endeavours of writers R.K. Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand and Raja Rao.', 'The two-day expo called ‘Coalesce on English Language’ was inaugurated by Paramita Educational Institutions chairman E. Prasada Rao, who interacted with the participants. The students showcased their talent in the history of English literature, vocabulary, grammar, idioms, tenses, phrases etc.', 'Through models and charts, they spoke about the contributions of the writer trio to English language works in the country. Day 2 of the expo is expected to attract students and teachers from other government and private schools in the town.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM hints at major overhaul of administration
['Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hinted at major overhaul of the administrative machinery in the coming days.', 'He said the government was checking leakages to ensure that the benefits of welfare and developmental programmes reached the needy. The State, which commenced its journey with huge uncertainties as well as crisis in the power sector five years ago, acquired thorough knowledge about its resources and needs and was hence, able to prioritise the needs of the people.', 'The government had accordingly decided to leverage the economy by spending on priority sectors like education for which over 11.2% of the budget was allocated. “There is a need to change the traditional ways of thinking,” Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said, stressing the need for imparting accountability at all levels. In the housing sector, for instance, the government was contemplating to hand over the responsibility of assessing the needs village wise by conducting survey through field assistants and village secretaries.', 'Once the assessment was made, adequate allocations would be made for the sector and the government was prepared to take the help from the Centre based on the priorities of the new government that would take over soon . “We can seek ₹4,000 crore to ₹5,000 crore from the Centre depending on its priorities in addition to the allocation made in the budget,” he said.', 'The Chief Minister was critical of the main opposition Congress for its charges that the government failed in providing reservations to backward class communities in proportion to their population. “The Congress has done nothing for the BCs. It was N.T. Rama Rao who gave 50% reservation to BCs in the local bodies,” he said.', 'Recalling that the TRS government had addressed letters to the Central government seeking constitution of an exclusive Ministry for the BCs as also enhancing their quota, he said the government had ensured that 50% quota was provided to BCs in market committees chairman posts.', 'Meanwhile, the Legislative Assembly and the Council were adjourned sine die after the passage of the Appropriation Bill 2019-20. The three-day session saw passage of four Bills, two pertaining to Appropriation and one each relating to Panchayat Raj and the GST amendment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Make healthcare affordable, accessible’
['Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan presenting the Genome Valley Excellence award 2019 to Dr. Don Cleveland of Ludwig Cancer Research of the University of California, at the 16th BioAsia, which began in the city on Monday.', 'BioAsia 2019, the 16th in the annual series focused on life sciences sector, began here on Monday with Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan calling for making healthcare affordable and accessible.', 'Counting them as the biggest challenges, the Governor said an important aspect was also to ensure “how exactly healthcare people [are made] accountable for their activities. [There is a] need for a code of ethics in this industry… because you are playing with human lives,” he added.', 'Underscoring the need to make healthcare affordable, he said it was also time to go back to grandma’s remedies for various small ailments.', 'On the issue of accessibility, the Governor said healthcare should reach more people in rural areas.', 'Turning to Don Cleveland from the Ludwig Cancer Research of the University of California who was presented the Genome Valley Excellence Award earlier, the Governor said the rising incidence of cancer was a cause of concern.', 'That and the issue of newer viruses that are not responding to antibiotics were areas that research needed to focus.', 'In an appeal to the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Narasimhan said: “Can you make the names written on the medicines a little readable for senior citizens like us? It is impossible to read, you require all sorts of equipment to read,” he said, pointing out how the name on a strip is difficult to read once a tablet is taken out. “We need to ensure that table is readable...,” he said.', 'Addressing the gathering, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan announced the setting up of Telangana Life Sciences Grid.', 'It is a first-of-its-kind initiative to enable life sciences sector to achieve its $100 billion dollar potential in accelerated mode. Over the course of next six months “we will form focused working groups and prepare a detailed strategy for the Telangana life sciences grid”, he said.', 'Listing out various projects, he said the State government has secured environmental clearance for the Pharma City and the cluster will be launched in the coming months.', 'There has been significant progress in the establishment of the country’s first scale-up manufacturing facility for Biotech start-up’s producing pre-clinical and clinical biological materials. B-Hub will be operational in about 12 months and become a showcase facility for life sciences in the entire country.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Indian pharma companies roping in new talent
['Indian pharma companies are roping in new talent both from within the country and abroad as a measure to meet the mounting challenge of regulatory compliances, a top executive of a leading pharmaceutical firm said here on Monday.', 'Stating that the big challenge facing the Indian pharma industry is one of compliances, Natco Pharma vice chairman and CEO Rajeev Nannapaneni said the expectations were rising by the day. “The way we are dealing with it is by getting new talent, from outside India [too] which helps keep us in the loop and improve our standards,” he told a panel discussion organised at HICC here, ahead of the BioAsia inauguration.', 'Mr. Nannapaneni, who traced Natco Pharma’s growth as one of the leading oncology players and took queries from the floor, said quality expectations had also risen quite a bit over a period of time.', 'The number of adverse comments [from regulatory agencies], however, has dropped compared to what it was a few years ago. Indian pharma companies, barring a few expectations, are “well compliant and doing a good job. I can confidently say what the expectations are and [we are] striving to meet them”.', 'Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories chairman K. Satish Reddy spoke on how DRL emerged from a bulk drug company into a pharma major. It deployed a combination of strategy over time, including a focus on human resources, scaling up, building capabilities, both organically and inorganically, as well as striving for process and executional excellence.', 'CMD of ATGC Biotech Markandeya Gorantla highlighted the work of his company in the area of pest control.', 'The panel discussion followed the signing of an MoU between the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Ltd for hand-holding and providing expertise mainly in financial and operational restructuring to MSMEs in the region.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Eye on Olympics, martial arts champ seeks sponsor
['For over two decades, Jameel Khan Patan has been waging a grim battle against all odds even while quietly collecting medals on the international stage; 18 gold, 12 silver and 18 bronze, to be precise. That’s not all. The martial arts champion also has to his credit four gold, two silver and six bronze medals in World Cups since 2016.', 'Yet, this spirited Hyderabadi continues to run from pillar to post in search of financial support to sustain his passion. “With the specific goal of making it to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in which karate is being introduced, I am still pursuing my love for martial arts,” he says.', 'For someone who earns a modest salary by training some schoolchildren in and around Toli Chowki, all that he looks for is some kind of support that would help him realise his goal of making it to the Olympics. “Compared to the support I got in the US with special exemptions to train and compete, the response back in my hometown has been disappointing,” says Jameel.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


NGOs slam EC over voter list preparation
['Showing sheaves of replies to Right to Information applications, the representatives of two NGOs on Monday demanded that the Election Commission of India come clean about the preparation of voters’ list in Telangana as well as in the entire country.', 'A pilot project for the NERP-AP was carried out in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in 2015. “The names of three million voters were deleted then,” said Mr. Kodali.', 'The RTI reply by Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh spells out the approach towards the electoral rolls. “SRDH is a comprehensive portal for managing demographic for facilitation UniqueID identity authentication. The demographic information in this portal is sourced from UIDAI. The SRDH Portal and search engine have been used for seeding UID (Aadhaar number) in the electoral roll database (sic),” says the reply by the CEO to Deputy Election Commissioner, ECI, dated April 2018.', 'Citing other information, the NGOs demanded release of all information about the pilot project — disclosure of list of voters deleted during NERP-AP.', 'The NGOs also sought information about the source code, algorithms, names of private firms which carried out the Aadhaar seeding exercise. Besides, they have demanded that the EC destroy all the Aadhaar-linked data collected using the exercise.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


TS voter numbers see-saw
['In the 2014 general elections in Telangana, there were 2,81,65,885 electors. During the special summary revision (SSR) of electoral rolls in 2016, the number dropped to 2,60,06,921 — a steep drop of 21,58,964.', 'In the 2018 Telangana Assembly elections, the number rose to 2,80,66,331 voters. Under the current SSR, the number of electors is set to cross the 2014 figure for the first time. “This massive dip in the number of electors in 2016 was due to the use of software to weed out specific voters under the National Electoral Rolls Purification and Authentication Programme (NERP-AP),” says security expert Srinivas Kodali, who used the Right to Information (RTI) application to dig up information stored in the offices of Election Commission in Delhi and Hyderabad.', 'The methodology used to delete voters has been shared for the first time by the EC. “CEO office supplied/shared the electoral roll/EPIC database with the State Resident Data Hub (SRDH) application. The application match the electoral roll/ EPIC entry with Aadhaar/Ration Card/ or any other departmental data with wider coverage of population above 18 years of age and seed the Aadhaar number in the electoral roll...For EPIC having less than 50% matching with UID Aaadhar has not been incorporated against their EPIC number (sic),” the RTI says.', 'The RTI qualifies the statement about what the EC did when the Aadhaar details did not match the EPIC details and the name was removed, “the Block Level Officer gone for door to door verification”.', 'This statement is contradicted by the letter sent by the then CEO, Bhanwar Lal: “There is poor progress of the programme in GHMC area and the door to door verification has not been conducted properly”.', 'Effectively, if the elector did not meet certain conditions in an algorithm, the name was deleted. The elector count which was 2,84,37,087 at the beginning of 2015 dropped to 2,53,27,785 at the beginning of 2018 — a drop of 31,09,302 voters (see chart).', 'The Aadhaar linkage in 2015 was patchy with 45% in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area and 84.45% in the rest of Telangana.', 'The CEO cited the difficult conditions in which he was tasked with the job of NERP-AP on a pilot basis.', 'The EC also revealed the algorithms used to delete names.', 'One of them is Soundex which uses phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound as pronounced in English. Levenstein distance algorithm which is a string metric for measuring the difference between two sequences.', 'Short and long name algorithm and String Shuffling algorithm were the others used for cross-checking names.', 'Incidentally, when the first time the EC used the Electoral Voting Machines in 1982 in 50 polling booths in Kerala’s Paravoor assembly constituency, the Supreme Court ordered a re-poll in booths where they were used.', 'The SC cited a technicality that Representation of People Act did not allow for electronic voting. The government of the day was forced to amend the RPA adding Section 61A to RPA to allow for use of EVMs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Professional help for students to fight stress
['The Narayana Group has launched Disha Helpline, a toll free number for students across the country for professional help with mental health issues.', 'Students can call 1800-419-1828 to reach experts who will guide them on handling stress apart from emotional and hormonal changes that they undergo in their teenage years.', 'Narayana Group managing director Sindhura Narayana and executive director Puneet Kothapa launched the helpline. Ms. Sindhura said psychologists and health professionals visited Narayana Junior Colleges and conducted group sessions, individual sessions and counselling for students, parents and faculty.', 'Over 40 dedicated on-roll counsellors made regular visits to 82 branches and conducted over 1,000 sessions with 80,000 students. The programme will be scaled to over 100 dedicated professionals catering to the entire group covering 4 lakh students. However, feedback from the first two years of the programme suggested that the initiative needed to be expanded beyond the group, she said.', 'Dr. Sindhura said a team of highly qualified professionals will be made available to counsel, mentor and guide students who contact them through the helpline. She said timely intervention can help students handle the emotional transition smoothly.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘No cause of concern over SC judgement on eviction of tribals’
["Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asserted that there is no cause of concern about the Supreme Court's recent judgement directing eviction of forest dwellers from their locations.", 'The Chief Minister said the judgement is applicable for such Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers whose claims of lands in forest areas under the Recognition of Forest Rights Act had been rejected.', 'The government is firm on identifying the genuine forest dwellers to ensure that their interests are protected.', 'Acknowledging reports on harassment of tribes by the police and forest department officials, he said steps had been taken to ensure that records of these lands are set right.', 'Mr. Rao said though his government had specific plans to address these issues, they could not be put into action in view of the model code of conduct which is operational in the State.', 'Responding to the charges made by Opposition leader Mallu Bhattivikramarka that the Land Record Updation Programme, a flagship programme of the government, was far from completion, he said the government is committed for the completion of the programme and work is under progress to ensure issuance of clear titles to all lands.', 'The government is therefore contemplating to utilise latest GIS based technologies as well as the help from the Central agencies for clear demarcation of lands to address these issues. “The process may take time, but my government is committed to evolve a permanent solution to the issue,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chief Minister defends vote on account budget
['The State Government has strongly defended the introduction of vote on account budget in the Legislative Assembly, instead of the regular budget claiming the decision was taken in view of the uncertainty over the priorities of the next government that would come to power at the Centre.', 'The vote on account budget has been introduced to seek permission for expenditure over the next six months and the full budget will be presented based on the priorities of the next government.', 'The Chief Minister recalled as to how the model schools, introduced by the previous UPA government, had been scrapped after the BJP-led NDA government took over the reins. He was participating in a lively debate during the passage of the Appropriation Bill 2019-20 in the Legislative Assembly on Monday.', "The Chief Minister gave strong counter to Opposition leader Mallu Bhattivikramarka's claims that there was huge mismatch between the government's estimates and actual spending at the grass root level. Mr. Bhatti charged that the government is resorting to indiscriminate borrowings from commercial banks at a time when there is 20% gap in the estimates and actuals over the past few years.", 'He alleged that the government had failed to mount pressure on the Centre for conceding the promises made at the time of bifurcation and this had resulted in losses in terms of investments as well as employment potential. “The SC/ST sub plan for instance has reported an average 30% less spending over the past few years,” he said.', 'The Chief Minister, however, took strong exceptions to the charges and asked the member not to make “irrational” claims. He said the government had spent additional 15% of funds under the sub-plans over and above the budgetary allocations and this had made Telangana as a role model in the country. The government had already circulated the details of spending in different sectors to the members and it was prepared to provide further details that were sought by the parties.', 'In terms of industrial development, the State is set to cross ₹1 lakh crore IT exports during the current year and plans have been put in place to generate huge employment by setting up IT clusters at Budvel, Kokapet and other areas abutting the city. In addition, steps had been initiated to open the second phase of the T-Hub which received national and international acclaim for its efforts to promote IT sector.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Bank borrowing to enhance agri business opportunities: KCR
['The State government has affirmed that it was opting for borrowings from commercial banks to ensure speedy completion of irrigation projects as they held out huge promise for farmers.', 'Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said once completed, the irrigation projects promise business turnover of the agricultural products to the tune of ₹ 1.25 lakh crore. The State had made sure that it remains within the norms specified under the FRBM Act and took steps to ensure that these loans were used for productive purposes.', "He was responding to Opposition leader Mallu Bhattivikramarka's charge that the government was resorting to indiscriminate borrowings from commercial banks and that stage is being set for levy of charges on people for supply of drinking water.", 'The Chief Minister said the government would indicate revenue streams in the detailed project reports submitted to the banks for obtaining loans and one such stream was allocation of 10% of the treated water to the industry which readily accepted the costs.', 'He said while the municipalities and municipal corporations should foot the bills for the water supplied to them, the government would provide grants to Gram Panchayats to off set the burden on them.', 'While the irrigation projects were being speeded up, the government had focussed on rejuvenating the minor irrigation sector, which was thoroughly neglected by the successive governments of the erstwhile united A.P., by taking up check dams and other structures with an estimated ₹4,000 crore, he said.', 'The Chief Minister, who replied to a marathon debate during the passage of the Appropriation Bill in the Legislative Assembly on Monday, launched scathing attack on the Congress during whose regime the projects were confined to paper.', 'The government had accordingly prioritised the Medigadda barrage with huge storage capacity while the Kaleshwaram project had been designed in such a way that it could draw 3 tmc ft water every day.', 'Projects conceived during the previous Congress regime were found to be unviable and some of them like the Pranahita Chevella Sujala Sravanti were designed as an eye wash to divert attention of the people from the largesse being doled out to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the Chief Minister said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Detective Inspector in ACB net
['The Detective Inspector of Hayatnagar police station in Rachakonda Commissionerate was caught red-handed by officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Monday while accepting a bribe of ₹30,000.', 'The accused officer, Ch. Jithender Reddy, a 2007 batch sub-inspector, demanded ₹50,000, and was caught while accepting ₹30,000 in cash, an ACB official said.', 'Reddy demanded bribe from complainant Rekha Sagar of Chalma Reddyguda village in Nalgonda district to settle a theft case lodged by a woman against his brother-in-law Nagaraju.', 'The Detective Inspector was arrested and produced before the Special Judge for SPE and ACB Cases, Hyderabad. This is the third case in the recent past, where the police officers were caught red-handed by the ACB sleuths while accepting a bribe.', 'On February 16, Ganagoni Shashidhar, sub-inspector with Raidurgam police station, was arrested by the ACB while accepting a bribe of ₹2,000 from a bike taxi driver. While another Sub-Inspector attached to Maheshwaram police station, G. Narsimhulu, was caught red-handed by the ACB when he demanded and accepted ₹80,000 bribe from a stolen property receiver.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Padma Rao elected Deputy Speaker unopposed
['Former Minister and senior MLA T. Padma Rao has been elected Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.', 'Mr. Padma Rao has been elected unanimously as no other nomination had been filed for the post.', 'The main Opposition Congress, the BJP and the MIM supported the candidature of Mr. Padma Rao for the post.', 'Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy announced Mr. Padma Rao’s election to the post after the proceedings commenced on Monday.', 'The new Deputy Speaker was conducted to the Chair by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who was accompanied by Opposition leader Mallu Bhattivikramarka, Legislative Affairs Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, MIM’s Syed Ahmed Pasha Qadri and T. Raja Singh of the BJP. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister recalled his almost two-decades association with Mr. Padma Rao and the contribution he made for the downtrodden, especially the toddy tappers during his stint as Excise Minister in the previous Cabinet.', 'It was because of the insistence of Mr. Padma Rao the government had waived tree tax for toddy tappers and ensured that ex-gratia was instituted for tappers who die in harness and those suffering permanent disabilities.', 'Mr. Bhatti recalled the three-time MLA’s association with the Congress as well as his active role as trade union leader and urged the Deputy Speaker to adopt an unbiased approach giving opportunity to all sides in the House.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


KTR targets Modi, Rahul and Naidu
['TRS working president K.T. Rama chose some harsh words to criticise Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Rahul Gandhi saying the country was not their fiefdom while he didn’t spare Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu.', 'Mr. Rama Rao, who was speaking to the Congress party cadre at the joining of various party leaders from Devarakadra constituency into TRS, said that neither Mr. Modi nor Mr. Rahul Gandhi can form the government at the Centre and Telangana should ensure that 16 seats should be given to TRS so that it can play a major role at the Centre in the formation of the next government.', 'He said people had lot of expectations from Mr. Modi but all he did was give them brooms to clean the streets and brought severe hardships to the homemakers with demonetisation.', 'Reacting to Mr. Naidu’s challenge to TRS to contest in association with YSRCP in the ensuing A.P. Assembly elections, he reminded that Telugu people showed their hatred towards Mr. Naidu’s administration when TTDP contested in Telangana elections. Mr. Naidu is going to lose badly as the youngsters in A.P. believe that their life would improve only if Mr. Naidu goes.', 'Targeting Mr. Naidu, he said while TRS chief K. Chandrashekar Rao started his own party Mr. Naidu snatched the party started by his father-in-law. And such a person has no moral right to criticise Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


TRS candidates file nomination papers
['TRS candidates filed nomination for the MLC elections under the MLA’s quota on Monday.', 'The responsibilities of the nomination process was assigned to various Ministers. Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav supervised the process of Home Minister Mahamood Ali’s nomination process apart from MIM candidate Meerza Riyaz Ul Hasan.', 'Labour Minister Ch Malla Reddy was the in-charge for Yegge Mallesham’s nomination papers while Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy supervised Sheri Subash Reddy’s nomination process. Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao ensured the smooth process of nomination by Sathyavathi Rathod.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two Forest Dept. employees in ACB trap
['Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Monday trapped two Forest Department employees while allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹ 30,000 from a road contractor in Dummugudem town.', 'Acting on a complaint filed by a road contractor, the ACB officials laid a trap and caught Forest Beat Officer Ramakrishna red-handed when he allegedly received the bribe from the complaint at the alleged behest of Forest Section Officer Vijayalakshmi of Parnashala on Monday afternoon, ACB sources said.', 'The duo allegedly demanded a bribe of ₹ 50,000 from the complainant on the pretext of getting him permission for obtaining sand for the road work in the forest area.', 'The ACB sleuths registered a case against the duo and are investigating.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Decision on pay revision once poll code is lifted
['The State Government is likely to take a concrete decision on the pay revision commission and other benefits assured to the employees after the completion of forthcoming Lok Sabha elections.', 'Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that since the model code of conduct for the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council and Lok Sabha is likely to be operational till June, the government is not in a position to take concrete steps in this direction.', 'Replying to marathon debate ahead of the passage of the Appropriation Bill in the Legislative Assembly on Monday, he said the government is committed to the welfare of its employees as could be seen from the 43% fitment along with special Telangana increment given to the employees in its first term.', 'The Chief Minister said the government is committed to implement the promised unemployment allowance to eligible youth and allocation of ₹ 1,800 crore had accordingly been made in the vote on account budget. But the process would take a few more months as the government has to define unemployment to begin with and work on the cut off date from which the allowance would become operational.', 'Instructions had been issued to the Finance Department to work out the modalities for making the scheme operational as it has financial aspects and the government is hopeful that there would be developments in this direction after June.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


SCR to run 445 summer special trains
['Secunderabad – Kamakhya – Secunderabad Special Train (36 services), Hyderabad – Jaipur – Hyderabad Special Train (36 services), Secunderabad – Barauni – Secunderabad Special Train (36 services), Secunderabad – Raxaul – Secunderabad Special Train (34 services), Secunderabad – Darbhanga – Secunderabad Special Train (70 services), Hyderabad – Raxaul – Hyderabad Special Train (34 services).', 'H.S. Nanded – H. Nizamuddin – H.S. Nanded Special Train (34 services), Kacheguda-Kakinada Port - Kacheguda Special Trains (8 services), Kacheguda-Krishnarajapuram-Kacheguda Special Trains (36 services), H.S. Nanded-Panvel- H.S. Nanded Special Trains (36 services).', 'Kacheguda-Tatanagar-Kacheguda Special Trains (34 services), Kacheguda-Visakhapatnam Special Trains (17 services), Visakhapatnam-Tirupati Special Trains (17 services) and Tirupati-Kacheguda Special Trains (17 services), a press release said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two coaches of Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central Super fast Mail derailed at Shoranur
['Two coaches of Chennai-Mangalore Superfast Mail (12601) derailed near Shoranur Railway station on Tuesday morning. The train was entering the station when it derailed.', 'The incident happened at 6.40 a.m. No one was injured in the accident. \xa0\xa0The train was detailed near the yard, where trains enter the station from the Palakkad side.', 'Two coaches adjacent to the engine, the parcel van and the first coach, were derailed. The electric posts near the railway line were damaged.', 'One parcel van next to the Locomotive and one coach attached to it came off the rails as the train was entering Road 7 of Shoranur Yard from Palakkad side at around 6.30 am.', 'The rail traffic on Shoranur-Thrissur route, which was disrupted for more than three hours, has been partially resumed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Migrant labourers targeted in Kodagu
['Migrant labourers in Kodagu, who have emerged as the mainstay of the workforce in coffee plantations across the district, have become the target of ire of a section of locals, with the Kodagu Growers’ Federation alleging that two or three instances of assault against them have taken place in the past few days.', 'The recent arrest of two workers from West Bengal in connection with the rape and murder of a pre-university student in a coffee estate in Kodagu has given an excuse to the locals, who have been facing the heat of unemployment, to train their guns on migrant workers, who are mostly from the Northeast.', 'Sundar Raj, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Madikeri, said demonstrations were held by local organisations taking up the cause of the rape and murder victim in Siddapura, but no case of assault against migrant workers was reported so far. The demonstrators have demanded that the workers be sent back to their native places.', 'However, the Kodagu Growers’ Federation and the Kodagu Planters’ Federation have alleged that two or three instances of assault on migrant labourers from Assam have taken place in south Kodagu even though formal police complaints have not been lodged.', 'The Kodagu Loaders’ Association president Bharat, who also heads the Gram Panchayat Workers’ Association of Kodagu, traced the origin of the discontent among locals to estate owners preference for migrant labourers after tribals, who had for ages worked as bonded labourers, began demanding fair wages.', 'Plantation owners are employing migrant labourers for their own convenience, but local workers, contractors and transporters have come together to exploit the rape case to their advantage, Mr. Bharat said. He added that certain forces were also trying to give a communal twist to the issue by targeting minority community workers from Assam.', 'The targeting of migrant labourers by locals comes in the backdrop of an exercise taken up by the police to collect details of all migrant labourers employed by estate owners. The police exercise, which began after a worker from Assam murdered his wife, had been intensified after the rape and murder case.', 'The Kodagu growers’ and planters’ federations have condemned the rape and murder while demanding punishment of the culprits. They have also come down on locals for targeting the entire migrant workforce using the crime as an excuse.', 'A representative of the growers’ federation said they preferred migrant labourers as they were willing to work till late in the day and put in overtime for incentives. But local labourers, who are even ferried from nearby places such as Periyapatna and parts of Hassan and Mysuru, leave estates early.', 'The identity of the PU student who was raped and killed in a coffee estate in Siddapura police limits earlier this month has been misused by various organisations in Kodagu.', 'Madikeri Deputy Superintendent of Police Sundar Raj said a section of local workers have formed a struggle committee in the name of the victim. Various organisations are liberally using her name in press statements, which then appear in the local media.', 'Disclosing the name of a rape victim, even after her death, is barred under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


SCPCR cannot order payment of compensation: Karnataka HC
['The High Court of Karnataka has said that the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has no authority and jurisdiction to pass an order for payment of compensation for a victim child or members of victim’s family but it can only recommend to the government or the authority concerned for grant of relief.', 'Justice H.T. Narendra Prasad passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Zainabhiya Education Society in Tumakuru district. The society had questioned the direction issued by the commission on September 17, 2014, to pay ₹1 lakh interim compensation to a minor student, who in July 2014 had suffered eye injuries accidentally due to an act of another student.', 'The institute pointed out that it had provided medical assistance to the injured child both locally and at Minto Eye Hospital, Bengaluru, besides paying ₹70,000 to victim’s father. The commission had initiated proceedings against the petitioner society based on a newspaper report published nearly two months after the incident.', 'The court also noticed that the commission had initiated proceedings under Section 14(1)(a) of the Commissions for the Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, and issued notice to the society on September 17, 2014, directing the society’s secretary to appear before the Commission on September 30, 2014. Following this, the secretary appeared but the commission, without conducting any enquiry as per Section 14, had on September 17, 2014, directed the society to pay ₹1 lakh as compensation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Congress, JD(S) to make a list of ‘winnable candidates’
['JD(S) and Congress leaders have decided to prepare a list of ‘winnable candidates’ to claim a number of constituencies in the State.', 'Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara and KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao on Monday held talks with Minister for Public Works H.D. Revanna and JD(S) president H. Vishwanath on various issues to arrive at the number of constituencies where ruling parties can strike an alliance to fight against the BJP.', 'Sources said that JD(S) has been claiming constituencies like Chickballapur, Hassan, Mandya, Tumakuru, Raichur, Shivamogga, and Mysuru, where it has a substantial vote bank and can defeat BJP in alliance with the Congress. However, leaders were not able to arrive at a consensus on the number of constituencies or candidates to be fielded in 28 Lok Sabha segments.', 'Mr. Gundu Rao said both parties decided to make a list of candidates for all 28 constituencies that would be placed before the soon to be held co-ordination committee meet headed by former CM Siddaramaiah. The committee comprised of CM H.D. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Parameswara and K.C. Venugopal, AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka. The final list would be sent to the high command for approval.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


HAL did not get NOC for aero show: Fire services
['A file photo of burnt cars at the Air Force Station, Yelahanka.', 'As the curtains came down on Aero India 2019 on Sunday, investigations into the major fire in which 300 vehicles were gutted at the parking lot on Saturday have revealed that the organisers — the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) — had not obtained a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Fire Department, which is mandatory as per guidelines.', 'Sources said the HAL failed to obtain an NOC despite a notice issued to the organisers a day before the event. Usually, organisers of major events approach the Fire Department seeking an NOC, but despite having a detailed plan for the event, the organisers did not approach the Fire and Emergency Service personnel for the NOC, an official from the Fire Department said.', 'On February 19, a team of officials from the Fire and Emergency Services visited the aero show venue and inspected the area before issuing a notice to the organisers to comply with fire-safety norms, sources said.', 'The organisers had taken control over the on-site area, including the parking lots, which according to them, comes under the purview of Ministry of Defence, fire officials said.', 'The organisers asked the police to take care of the off-site area, which includes maintaining law and order and traffic outside the venue.', 'However considering the public involvement in the on-site area, we decided to venture into the boundary and planned the deployment accordingly, said a fire official.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fighting fire with fire was an option before water-bombing began in Bandipur
['Parts of Bandipur National Park reduced to ashes.', 'The raging flames that engulfed Himavad Gopalaswamy Betta in Bandipur were threatening to spread further as there were sporadic incidents of fire on Monday as well before the introduction of Indian Air Force choppers for water dropping helped save the day.', 'There was high drama and tension atop Gopalaswamy Betta — which has been hit worst by the fire in Bandipur — when billowing smoke rising in the distant horizon gained in intensity and began moving westward.', 'Senior officials, including Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) C. Jayaram and Chief Conservator of Forests Ambadi Madhav, surveying the damage from the hilltop, were overwhelmed on learning that smoke was emanating from the adjoining Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu. For, the incoming fire from Mudumalai could soon spread towards the tri-junction of Karnataka-Kerala-Tamil Nadu and ravage the Moolehole range which harbours a rich density of animals.', 'The officials agreed that the fire should be stopped from reaching Moolehole at all costs and decided to opt for counter-fire or backfire as a measure to stall its progress. Mr. Madhav was directed to rush towards the forest area bordering Mudumalai.', 'But C. Sridhar, head of the forest force, suggested that they should wait till the wind speed subsided, pointing out that things could go south with the combination of fire and wind. The intensity of the fire and the scale of damage was being accentuated by high winds. The normal wind speed in these areas tends to be around 5 kmph, but for the past few days it has been around 15 kmph, stoking new fires.', 'The official said he was in touch with the Meteorological Department and was informed that the wind speed was expected to reduce by Tuesday. Then the fire can be brought under control within 24 hours with water bombing, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Now, fire in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary
['Fire has broken out in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary at some places between Sangama range in Ramanagaram and Basavana Betta range in Mandya. The sanctuary, spread across Chamarajanagar, Ramanagaram and Mandya districts with an area of 1,027 sq.km, is home to a variety of flora and fauna.', 'The fire broke out at Sangama range in Kanakapura in the late hours of Sunday and rapidly spread towards the Basavana Betta range, near Muthathi of Mandya district, by Monday morning, said sources in the Forest Department. The cause is yet to be ascertained. However, it has destroyed dry vegetation in a vast area between these two ranges. The fire swiftly spread towards Muthathi because of the wind.', 'Dinesh Kallahalli, a social activist from Kanakapura, alleged that the department had failed to take precautionary measures such as creating fire lines.', 'Meanwhile, the fires that broke out on Sunday at Belli Betta Kaval reserve forest near K.R. Pet and Karighatta reserve forest near Srirangapatna were doused, according to forest officials. They are suspected to be the handiwork of local miscreants and the department will initiate action against them, the official said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?']


Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?
['Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Questions are being raised in conservation circles on whether the fire in Bandipur could have been avoided through adequate preventive measures.', 'There are rumours doing the rounds that precautionary measures like completing the fire lines that act as a fire break were not completed. NGOs involved in wildlife activism argue that the focus was on taking up sundry civil works rather than beefing up firefighting capabilities.', 'However, forest officials said they had recruited additional watchers on a temporary basis and deployed them in fire-prone zones, as they usually do. In Bandipur, around 400 watchers were recruited. Besides, trainees and guards on probation from other parts of the State were deployed, according to Chief Conservator of Forests Ambadi Madhav.', 'The fire was particularly intense this year as Bandipur had a surfeit of fuel in the form of dry vegetation. “The copious rains during monsoon followed by unseasonal rains till November helped in the luxurious growth of vegetation. But the forest is dry deciduous in nature and more the vegetation, more the fuel,” Mr. Madhav said.', 'Besides, there is profuse growth of lantana and epatorium in Bandipur, with the weeds covering almost 60% of the forest. Both weeds are hardy and highly combustible, and this coupled with wind during February added to the severity of the fire this year. But NGOs argue that lantana is prevalent in other national parks as well and no fires have been reported there.', 'Forest Minister Satish Jarkiholi said the fire was “an act of sabotage”. “We will use drones to help detect smoke so that fire can be identified and put out before it goes out of control. The assistance of the Fire and Emergency Services [personnel] will be taken during the onset of summer and they will be put on standby as backup,” he added.', 'However, NGOs say the Forest Department has to rope in the local community to help detect fires before they go out of control, but it has so far failed on this front.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Bandipur fire: Water bombing planned, IAF chopper complete location survey
['Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers will be pressed into service for water bombing to contain the forest fires that continue to ravage vast tracts of Bandipur forest in Karnataka.', 'While a location survey was conducted on Monday over Himavad Gopalswamy Betta range which is the worst affected due to the fires, the actual water dropping may commence from Tuesday morning.', 'The choppers, which did a reconnaissance and location survey on Monday, flew repeatedly around the Gopalswamy Betta range and were in constant communication with the forest department officials on the ground through their network.', 'The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Mr. Jayaram said he was in touch with the meteorological department, which said that the wind speed is expected to reduce by Wednesday. “The normal wind speed in these areas tend to be around 5 km per hour but since the last few days it was extremely windy with speed in the range of 15 km per hour which was stoking fire in new places,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Bandipur fire: Accidental or an act of sabotage?', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Bandipur fire: Accidental or an act of sabotage?']


Sensex ends 240 points lower on rising India-Pakistan tension
['The benchmark BSE Sensex on Tuesday ended 240 points lower as investor sentiment weakened after the India carried out air strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan.', 'Weak cues from global equities and selling pressure on financials and realty stocks too weighed on market mood here.', 'After cracking nearly 500 points, the 30-share Sensex pared some losses but ended 239.67 points, or 0.66%, lower at 35,973.71. It hit a low of 35,714.16 and a high of 36,172.52.', 'The gauge surged 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 44.80 points, or 0.41%, to 10,835.30 after hovering between 10,729.30 and 10,888.75.', 'Losses were more pronounced in banking, realty and PSU counters.', 'While the former may be considered reflective of the evolving broader global perspective, the latter may have limited or transient impact on the market direction, he said, adding that markets may remain quite volatile in the coming days, especially, in the light of the fast approaching general elections.', 'The Indian Air Force struck Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday in a major “preemptive” action, killing a large number of terrorists and trainers of the Pak-based terror group preparing to carry out suicide attacks in India.', 'The move came 12 days after JeM carried out the Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'Meanwhile, the rupee which depreciated 38 paise to 71.35 against the U.S. dollar in early trade, recovered partially to quote at 71.06 in late afternoon trade at the forex market, and was still trading 9 paise lower over its previous close of 70.97.', 'Among Sensex constituents, HCL Tech suffered the most by diving 2.26%, followed by HDFC shedding 2.10%.', 'Other big losers were ICICI Bank down 2.08%, Infosys 1.75%, SBI 1.44%, Vedanta 1.20%, Hero MotoCorp 1.15%, RIL 1.01% and L&T 1%.', 'Also, Bharti Airtel fell 0.88%, IndusInd Bank 0.79%, HDFC Bank 0.72%, ITC 0.65%, Kotak Bank 0.44%, ONGC 0.37%, Maruti Suzuki 0.36%, PowerGrid 0.36%, Bajaj Finance 0.27%, HUL 0.19%, M&M 0.15%, Tata Steel 0.14% and Sun Pharma 0.03%.', 'However, Bajaj Auto and Asian Paint managed to end in the green.', 'Shares of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation fell by 0.74% after NSE said Britannia Industries will replace the oil marketing company in the Nifty50 index from March 29.', 'Shares of Britannia Industries, on the other hand, gained 0.95% to ₹3,073.80 on the BSE.', 'In sectoral terms, the BSE realty index dropped 1.63%, bankex (0.75%), capital goods (0.69%), FMCG (0.47%), consumer durables (0.43%), infrastructure (0.38%), PSU (0.20%), IT (0.16%) and healthcare (0.13%).', 'However, auto index topped the gainers list by rising 0.32%, followed by oil & gas 0.18%, power 0.10%, metal 0.07%, teck 0.04% and power 0.02%.', 'The broader markets were in a somewhat mixed shape with mid-cap index falling 0.27%, while small-cap index rising 0.26%.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'DIIs sold shares worth ₹1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'Elsewhere in Asia, Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.67%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 0.61%, Japan’s Nikkei shed 0.37%, Korea’s Kospi was down 0.32% and Singapore Straits Times slipped 0.32%.', 'In European markets, Frankfurt’s DAX was down 0.49%, and Paris CAC 40 dropped 0.42% in their early session. London’s FTSE declined 0.82%.', 'The U.S. Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23% higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gold falls ₹60 on weak global cues, muted demand
['Representational image.', 'Gold prices fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams at the bullion market on Tuesday backed by weak trend overseas amid easing demand from local jewellers at prevailing levels, according to All India Sarafa Association.', 'Silver, too, dropped by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg owing to reduced offtake by industrial units, while its coins strengthened on increased demand.', 'Traders said apart from a weak trend overseas, decline in demand from local jewellers and retailers at existing levels in domestic spot market, mainly weighed on the gold and silver prices.', 'Globally, spot gold fell 0.14% to $1,326.30 an ounce and spot silver by 0.16% to $15.93 an ounce in New York.', 'In the national capital, gold of 99.9% fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams, while gold of 99.5% shed ₹40 to ₹34,400 per 10 gram.', 'Sovereign gold, however, remained unaltered at ₹26,600 per piece of eight grams in limited deals.', 'Following gold, silver ready too moved down by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg and weekly-based delivery fell by ₹314 to ₹40,076 per kg.', 'On the other side, silver coins increased by ₹1,000 to ₹83,000 for buying and to ₹84,000 for selling of 100 pieces.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sensex cracks over 350 points; Nifty below 10,800
['A view of the BSE building in Mumbai.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The benchmark BSE Sensex fell over 350 points in early trade on Tuesday amid rising tension between India and Pakistan, weak Asian cues and selling pressure on banking, power, IT and power counters.', 'The Sensex was trading 343.20 points, or 0.95 per cent, down at 35,870.18 after touching a low of 35,842.58. The gauge rallied 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 105.45 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 10,774.65.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The allegation came amid heightened tension between India and Pakistan after the February 14 suicide attack by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror group that killed 40 CRPF soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district.', 'The laggards that dragged the key indices include Yes Bank, Hero MotoCorp, Tata Steel, Vedanta, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, SBI, RIL, M&M, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Infosys, NTPC, HDFC, Maruti Suzuki, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, L&T, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Asian Paint, ITC and ONGC, falling by up to 2.38 per cent.', 'On the other hand, TCS, HUL and Tata Motors rose up to 0.93 per cent.', 'Most of the BSE sectoral indices were trading in the red, led by banking, power, PSU, realty and IT stocks with losses up to 0.90 per cent.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'Meanwhile, DIIs sold shares worth ₹ 1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹ 2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'In the Asian region, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was down 0.49 per cent, Japan’s Nikkei fell 0.20 per cent, Taiwan shed 0.14 per cent, Korea’s Kospi shed 0.19 per cent and Singapore Straits Times was down 0.27 per cent in late morning trade Tuesday.', 'The US Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23 per cent higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Rupee sheds 33 paise against US dollar in early trade
['The rupee on Tuesday sheds 30 paise against US dollar in early trade.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'The rupee depreciated 33 paise to 71.30 against $ in early trade on Tuesday at the forex market on fresh demand for the US currency from importers.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'On Monday, the rupee firmed up by 17 paise to close at 70.97 against $ in line with most Asian currencies amid hopes that the US and China will soon reach an agreement to settle their trade tariff issues.', 'Meanwhile, the benchmark BSE Sensex fell 349.78 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 35,863.60 in opening deals Tuesday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Hockey’s loss may be football’s gain
["With Hockey India not interested in availing his services any further and having received an official release from his duties from SAI, former National men's coach Harendra Singh has now decided to shift focus to football, something that he has been planning for a while now.", "Harendra, a self-confessed football fanatic, has already spoken to Football Delhi president Shaji Prabhakaran and is likely to participate in a coaching course for AIFF's D Licence — the first step — sometime next month.", 'Germany is a prime example of it with national hockey coaches Bernhard Peters and Markus Weise moving to football. Former India coach Dutchman Roelant Oltmans was also the technical director of football back home before returning to hockey.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the hockey World Cup?']


Rumination, deliberation
['On the first four tracks, there is much rumination and deliberation on youth and the feelings that accompany young life, twisted into familiar (yet unspoiled) Bollywood metaphors about betrayal and love. While ‘Nikamma’ is undeniably upbeat, Sawhney expands his sonic palette best with acid-drenched synth and horn sections over disco beats on songs like ‘Din Raat’ and ‘Ek Nagma’.', 'Sawhney seems to use his voice as both an instrument and for lyrical prowess. He sings wistfully about love and intoxication on ‘Ek Nagma’, with a cascading synth pattern becoming the hook.', 'Get the album on lifafa.me. Peter Cat Recording Co. and Lifafa perform at Fandom at Gilly’s Redefined on March 2.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘I don’t get attached to any car’
['It was a dream to buy a Scorpio, so I bought one. Later, I wanted to buy an Audi as Radhika, my wife, who was my girlfriend then, wanted one. She felt that the car was nice and was keen on an Audi A4. But to surprise her, I went ahead and bought her an Audi A6.', 'Cars have always been there, but, I don’t get too attached to any of them. They are just a mode of transportation for me.', 'My life on wheels has been pretty non-dramatic, unlike my profession. But cars have been an important part of my life. I often eat in my car. In fact, if you see my car, you will see it is my second home. There will be clothes, food, snacks, besides a pillow and a blanket. I also carry a medical kit in my car. There have been times when I have even slept in my car, especially during late-night shoots.', 'I also love bikes, especially the RX 100. It has been one of my favourite vehicles. I was barely in high school when I was dreaming of owning one. But my parents did not buy me one till I was in college, when they gifted me an RX 100. I had also modified it in some small ways, which only added to its appeal.', 'Sadly, my parents sold it off as they felt I was beginning to get distracted and not focussing on my studies. That was the saddest day of my life. I was so disappointed that I almost locked myself up in my room for a couple of days.', 'After that, I decided, no matter what I wanted, I would work hard, earn my own money and buy my own vehicle. Even now, my parents tease me about my reaction.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Happy feet
['Catalan band Els Catarres has brought with them, to Chennai, their trademark happy-go-lucky style of music at the recently concluded Global Isai festival at Phoenix MarketCity, the last leg of their first Indian tour. The pop-folk band trio — comprising vocalist and frontman Èric Vergés, Jan Riera Prats on keyboard and trumpets, and Roser Cruells, on the bass — hardly ever stay still on stage; their energetic dancing, combined with fast-paced vocals and breezy guitar riffs, had the crowd dancing despite the songs being in Catalan.', 'While Èric, who writes most of the songs, is more into indie music, and Roser likes all things jazz, Jan is the one with a finger on the pulse of the mainstream. “He knows what’s popular, and what will work in a song,” he says. Jan, like Èric, started out with guitars, but then took an interest in the accordion, then the keys, and the banjo. “I know a little bit of everything. But I’m a master of none,” quips Jan.', 'Nine years ago, while playing in small Catalan bars, they never imagined they’d be doing an India tour some day. Their big break came in 2011, with ‘Jenifer’, a song they wrote as a joke, becoming an overnight hit; currently, it has 4.8 million views on YouTube. “Jenifer is this funny song about a Catalan boy who falls in love with a Spanish girl. A Romeo and Juliet type of situation,” he grins.', 'Then came the process of realigning themselves to the idea of being an official band. “We learnt a lot of things, but mainly that, one hit song doesn’t mean you’re successful.” There were constant fears of being written off as a one-hit-wonder, or ‘so last summer.’ “We have earned this space in people’s hearts, and now we had to work harder than before to keep it,” he says.', 'It was on this subject that the band took a workshop at Swarnabhoomi Academy of Music, for amateur musicians. Fame comes easy and cheap; but staying in the game, navigating your way through the marketing maze, all the while staying true to your art, is the real challenge. “What worked with us was that we weren’t very young — in our late twenties — when it happened. We had a decade of experience with not going anywhere,” he says.', 'Come November, the band will be performing with the 1983 Symphonic Orchestra in Barcelona. Only after that will they start composing for their next album. “We always take year-long breaks between albums, to make sure that our music style evolves, and remains fresh,” he signs off.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Honoured to bring attention to under reported issue of menstruation in ‘Period. End of Sentence’, says Netflix
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Contemplation at crossroads
['The seminar on Enhancing Career Opportunities organized by ITC and Indian Musicological Society at NCPA, Mumbai raised some serious questions. Is music was all about performance and career or was it about rigour? In this world of abundant opportunities how do we preserve its sanctity?', 'In an address that was thought provoking, Sahasrabuddhe rightly tilted the balance towards the essence and philosophy of fine arts. It could have -- going by the title of the seminar -- veered towards market, economy, and tools available for the present day musician, but Sahasrabuddhe emphatically maintained that crass commercialization and unscrupulousness was detrimental to art and the artiste. Taking it forward in a similar tenor, chairperson of Sangeet Natak Academy, Shekhar Sen said that temples in the past, were centres of culture and not consolidation camps of religion and ritual, like they are today. Do we need music to live? “Not really. But if you remove culture from life, people will have shorter lifespans. It is the responsibility of the society to support and nurture an artiste, for, they are representatives of culture,” he argued.', 'In the session on “Lack of Opportunities”, the young musicians painted a different picture. While both Smit Tewari and Yashwanth Vaishnav came from unconventional backgrounds and have put up with enormous difficulty, they both felt that there are enough number of opportunities. Social media and Youtube they agreed, gave them considerable exposure, and has increased career opportunities. Both these young musicians felt that teaching was a source of steady income, however, they wondered “if everyone can become a teacher?” Adding nuance to the whole argument, vocalist Sanjeev Chimmalagi felt that while youtube has rendered the world a stage, it had to be used judiciously. It is a learning tool, but there’s too much of it. “Struggle is a constant to every creative artiste’s life. Today the struggle is of too much too soon. For instance, Colours TV asked me to send my students for a show. Now should I send them or not? Is it an opportunity or a diversion? These are the dangers about which one should constantly be aware,” he explained. “What is an artiste’s life without struggle? His art matures only when in struggle,” added Smit.', 'Dr. Mandavi Singh, Vice Chancellor of the Indira Sangeet Vishvavidyalay, Khairagarh University, took the audience on a journey through the programmes of the university, set up in 1956 for Performing Arts. A kathak dancer herself, she projected the earnest efforts of the university in motivating students with creative abilities.', 'Moderating the session on Teaching and Promotion of Indian Music, Pt. Vidhyadhar Vyas said that it is imperative to understand and adapt to the cultural changes of the music world. But is that really possible in the present, asked Pt. Ritwik Sanyal? “We are at cross roads and have plenty of stumbling blocks. As a community, we have to think seriously about the decisions we make.” Agreeing with the seriousness of the situation, B.B. Chatterjee of ITC, Kolkata, felt that since the associations with Indian Classical Music are spiritual, a career in music has to be seen both at the levels of Sadhana and Performance. “We also have to make a choice between constructive criticism and destructive appreciation,” he emphasized. Pt. Nayan Ghosh spoke at length about the journey of Sangeeth Mahabharathi, established by Pt. Nikhil Ghosh. “In the last 62 years, we boast off an unbroken chain of teaching, festivals, lecdems, workshops and more. We promoted meaningful music, and we have created teachers, research assistants, music journalists and event managers. We have also created musicians capable of heading archives and digitization studios. In all, we are a centre for excellence in performing arts,” he explained.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Music is life, all else is subsidiary
['Most often, when we think of a career, the focus is usually mostly on the livelihood, concert platform opportunities and recognition/respect dimensions. The objective of the seminar is also formulated in this stricter focus, and it is warranted. But if we reflect upon the lives of the masters of the yesteryears, I wonder whether this focus will be adequate. We have heard of a young Bhimsen Joshiji or Mallikarjun Mansur ji running away from home and then going through considerable hardship in their early career. I am certain that at their young age, they did not have any idea as to what was meant by being an illustrious concert performer, or of the various Padma and other awards that came their way in later life. It was plain and pure passion and devotion for music that drove them without even bothering about where their next meal was going to come from. If two square meals a day and a warm bed to sleep in would satisfy your livelihood requirements, then securing these should not be difficult.', 'Then your entire life is available for you to pursue your musical career. These career opportunities are multiple and the progress in your musical journey could be life-long without the worries about a career. Let me illustrate the different dimensions of a musical career starting with the examples of my three Gurus, for everyone of whom a lifelong immersion in the pursuit of music was a given.', 'My first Guru, the late Pandit Narayanrao Datar, was a music teacher all through his life. Music tuitions were his source of livelihood. He received tremendous respect and affection from all his students and their families, but he was not a concert artist, neither did he receive any accolades therefrom. I am in his eternal debt for his contribution to music in general and the foundation he laid for me.', 'My dear mother and second Guru, Manik Bhide, never wished music for a livelihood, did not have concert aspirations, and the accolades came to her only recently, much after she retired from an active life in music. Yet, she had not one but two illustrious musical careers: the first as a disciple of the late Ganasaraswati Kishori Amonkar, and the second as a Guru to me and several other disciples, who are concert artists or Gurus in their own right today.', 'My third Guru, the late Pandit Ratnakar Pai was recognised as a gifted artist from his early teens. Though he was looked up to as an upcoming concert artist, he chose not to depend on his concert performances as his source of livelihood. He preferred and retired from an accounting job from Forbes, Forbes and Campbell. Yet, his contribution to music in training his disciples and carrying forward the authentic lineage of his Gharana is immense.', 'I must have been five years of age when my lessons with Datar guruji began. I was growing up listening to regular riyaz of all elders at home, but none of them even hinted at the prospect of learning music in order to make a career out of it. We learnt music because it was good. What I did of my music taalim was left for me to decide when needed. I had started performing as a yuva kalakar right since my college days. But as is well known to many of you, I completed my conventional education doing rigorous scientific research and earning a Ph.D. in biochemistry. I even taught in the Ruia College for one year before I decided to pursue music fulltime. Even that decision was not with a definitive career as a performer in sight. It happened as part of my pursuit of music. It helped that my family was well settled and that my husband had a steady job.', 'Were there difficulties in this journey? Yes certainly. Everybody faces them and these life experiences ultimately shape the artist and her art. But I always had a supportive family and I believe that was one of the important, but unseen aspects of my musical career.', 'Are younger musicians of today better placed than when I was growing up as a young artist? I believe they are. Today’s young musicians are living in a much more liberal, open and generally healthier atmosphere.', 'They listen to each other, admire and respect each other, host each other and make collaborative contributions. Something I did not see growing up. We just had the AIR, Doordarshan and the press as media outlets but a fair amount of media time and print space for classical music. Today, there is a plethora of outlets in the electronic media, plenty of musicals therein but much less of classical music in the public media. There used to be many small music circles in different towns and cities who would host concerts, albeit with limited budgets, one hears less of them now. Instead today, social media outlets, recording studios and home recordings have multiplied, gadgets and technology have become cheaper and accessible. It is easier to record, promote, spread and sell music online now. Earlier, a recording label had to spot you and record your music. Then, you had to compete with stalwarts equivalent of your gurus for display space in music stores! Today, outside of the musical sphere, career opportunities in the overall economy have diversified significantly. If you have skills, it is easier to pursue a parallel career and your music.', 'The great Marathi literary personality, thespian, musician, film actor the late Pu. La. Deshpande once very beautifully commented on the career opportunities for artistes. “Let me tell you a secret that I discovered in life. Do get educated in the subjects and trained in the skills that provide you a livelihood. Work hard in your career and earn your living.', 'Upa-jeevika means livelihood in Marathi. Pu La had said that it is upa or subsidiary. What matters is the Jeevika. Make music your Jeevika and the rest will fall in place.', 'I have tried to follow his advice all my life and to understand the meaning of Jeevika for myself.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


I don’t look that good anymore, says Arjun Rampal
['What kind of preparation did you undergo to play a pilot?', 'I didn’t have any experience of flying an aircraft. I have been inside a cockpit once. My obvious demand was to take me inside the cockpit of an airplane to understand things better. I did the flight simulation training where they use virtual reality to teach. I understood how to use the throttle, working with radars, what to press when you talk to a base and what are the different codes.', 'Like many other recent works, does it also aim to understand the mind of a defence person?', 'The main character here is not driven by nationalism or patriotism. Here is a pilot who was associated with the Air Force and some events have left unbearable imprints on his psyche. The show attempts to understand the mind of the protagonist. The focus is on the mind because as a pilot a lot depends on his mental focus. The mental disturbances, what all goes into his decision-making, has been dealt with in detail. I think more than external activities, if you try to understand the mind of the protagonist, it would help you understand what is driving him.', 'Once upon a time, there was a general perception that you are demoted if you work in television. Do you think a similar comparison exists with a web series too?', 'I don’t think that if you do some work on the OTT platforms you are being demoted, because the budgets here are comparable to cinema and sometimes much higher. Here, we are actually in competition with international platforms in which all great filmmakers from across the world are showcasing their content. The bar has definitely gone up.', 'Because of your modelling background, you were always praised for your looks and screen presence. Did you have to make efforts on acting to come out of that image trap?', 'Physical presence, that is the screen presence, is really important for an actor and it is humbling if I have that. How I look is not something of my doing. That credit goes to my parents. If someone is coming to watch me and not getting engrossed in the character, then obviously something is wrong.', 'How helpful was the deep baritone?', 'I don’t know. With time you understand how to use your voice according to the need. It is a part of the training that you do to throw or modulate voice. I don’t agree with the analogy that voice makes you a good actor. Sometimes, you are a great actor by not saying anything — pauses, gestures, expressions say a lot.', 'How has your approach to make the directors understand your process been?', 'You are also a producer now. Any learnings?', 'I have an idea about spending money on films and I know that films don’t fail but the budgets fail. So if you know how much you should spend on a kind of film, it will determine its business. And the rest is about taking chances.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


BIFFes: Fans demand dedicated app for the annual fest
['The Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) provides a catalogue of films, each with a short summary and a printed schedule for the week. Visitors select films based on this catalogue, but the summary alone is not enough to make a decision.', 'Many are now calling for an app with all the information. “Most film festivals today come with an app. One can even book seats through the app,” said Harish Mallya, a film buff and one of the organisers. He added that they had been suggesting developing such an app for three years now.', 'Film-maker Sandeep Kumar pointed out that it was not just festivals abroad that had apps, citing the example of the International Film Festival of Kerala. “It has an app that allows people to book three shows a day. Half of the seats at any show are pre-booked at the festival,” he said, arguing for a similar app for BIFFes. Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, said there were discussions on developing an app this year, but they were held too late. “We will try to get a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'He added that developing an app in the IT capital of the country was not a problem, and attributed the delay to the planning of the festival. “We need to begin planning for the festival at least five months in advance. Despite repeated attempts, the government clears the festival only by December. If we correct this, we will have a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


BIFFes: Chaos over last-minute rescheduling of films
['A First Day Cover by India Post being released to mark the 11th edition of BIFFes in Bengaluru on Monday.', 'Confusion continued at the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) on Monday owing to rescheduling of many film screenings at the last minute. At several screens, the audience and volunteers got into verbal spats, with some almost coming to blows.', 'Cine-goers were seen complaining of “high-handedness” of the volunteers and even alleged that they were manhandled.', 'Film-maker M.S. Satyu and other film-makers were not let into the theatre even though they had passes that provide a separate access to the theatre. Journalist Dinesh Amin Mattu alleged that the volunteers were rude to the audience and were often announcing a full house even though seats were empty inside.', 'However, the volunteers had a different story to tell. Krishnan, a volunteer, said the audience often jumped queues and tried to barge into the theatres making their task difficult.', 'Another volunteer said people resorted to ingenious ways to get into the theatres — not vacating their seats after the show is over and holding on to those seats for the next show, which would have long queues outside. Audiences also made their way into the theatre through the exit doors, forcing volunteers to be posted at the exit gates as well, they said.', 'Organisers had expected the crowds to wane from Monday, but that was not the case. People continued to throng the venue in large numbers. Many skipped the weekend fearing large crowds and started attending the festival from Monday.', 'N. Vidyashankar, artistic director, BIFFes, said two books — Kannada Talkies in 75 years and Random Reflections — present a bird’s eye view of Kannada cinema from its inception to today and beyond. “Puttaswamy’s book traces the cultural evolution of Kannada cinema, and Random Reflections looks at the larger picture, including the business part of it, and examines what could be its future,” he said. Senior critic Aruna Vasudev said she was happy to see scholarly works on Kannada cinema in English as it was very rare for the wider national audience to be informed of the cinema in languages apart from Hindi and hoped the two books would fill such a gap.', 'India Post also released a special First Day Cover to mark the eleventh edition of BIFFes on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Oscars 2019: happy surprises and shocking snubs
['Vice.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Here is to more girl power: Guneet Monga
['The documentary shows how in Kathi Khera village in Uttar Pradesh, local women, deprived of affordable pads, don’t just find steady income and empowerment by making their own brand called Fly but also end up getting access to the feminine hygiene product themselves.', 'In a press note, co-producer of the documentary, Guneet Monga, thanked the Academy in recognising the efforts of the young girls from Oakwood as well as those in Kathi Khera.', 'She also acknowledged the decade-long work of Action India run by Gauri Chaudhary on spreading awareness about reproductive rights.', 'She added that period is an end of a sentence but not a girl’s education. “Here is to more girl power... I really want every girl to know that each one of them is a goddess… Now, that we have an Oscar, let us go change the world,” she said.', 'Monga is also a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences herself; she was amongst the 20 Indians invited to join last year.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


The tabla that spoke
['The audience seemed to vanish for the six musicians on stage, as they played for the Guruttama concert, organised by Shakti Foundation at The Music Academy, for charity. Instead, they had eyes only for each other on stage, as if caught up in intense conversation, in a language only they are privy to.', 'On the keyboard was Stephen Devassy, who incidentally, turned 38 that day. Taking care of the strings were lead guitarist Dominique Di Piazza, bass guitarist Mathias Muller, representing the jazz and blues front, while Abhijit Nair played the Carnatic violin. On percussion were Rodney Holmes with the drums, and tabla player Bickram Ghosh.', 'Dressed in all-white, the jazz quartet of Stephen, Dominique, Mathias and Rodney jumped right into it with a composition by Mathias. Rodney shone in this, as a powerhouse of a drummer. In the following piece, the four were relentless, the apparent lack of silence bringing in a sense of urgency.', 'However, the true magic happened when Abhijit and Bickram joined the four, in a fusion of Jazz, Blues, Carnatic and Hindustani. The set list, curated by Raju Rajamani, comprised iconic guitarist John McLaughlin’s ‘Little Miss Valley’, a fun Blues riff, the fusion ‘Ahimsa’, that sounded Indian, though it had been composed by Mathias, and mandolin legend U Srinivas’ Indian version of ‘River Song’, in raag Des.', 'The ‘River Song’, meditative and soothing in its use of the violin, was a tribute to the late Velan Raghuvir, founder of Shakti Foundation. It was moving to see Stephen lose himself in this piece, with closed eyes and a face scrunched up in passion. The song flowed as gently as the river it is named after.', 'Bringing the madness back, however, was Zinc, a composition by Bickram Ghosh, which literally, put the spotlight back on percussion. Though the drums and the tabla provided steady support to the strings and the keys throughout, it was here that they got to show off their skills. The hook line, incidentally, sounded like James Bond readying for a mission.', 'Bickram and Rodney’s jugalbandi embodied a friendly ‘music-off’ between the East and the West; as the tabla and the drums tried to best the other. “You may have seen drums and bass, but now you’ll see drums and face,” joked Bickram, as he proceeded to alternate beats on his tabla, chest and cheeks, turning his entire body into an instrument.', 'The six came together once more for the final song: a conversation of sorts, where each player got his monologue. The solos became shorter — down to a single note — and more light-hearted, with each round. And so, the musical baton passed around, ending in a storm of collective music — a fitting tribute to Shakti Foundation’s idea that a supportive group amplifies individual beauty.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


PM Modi knew about Pulwama attack: Mamata Banerjee
['Addressing a meeting of the Trinamool Congress [TMC] here on Monday, Ms. Banerjee asked why the Prime Minister did not play a pro-active role in stopping the attack.', 'This is the first time that she has directly blamed the PM for the Pulwama attack that killed over 40 CRPF jawans.', 'She also accused the BJP of instigating Hindus against the Muslims.', 'She named some of the senior leaders, like TMC’s Secretary General Partha Chatterjee and asked why men are allowed to “organise bike rally after midnight” in various areas.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ganguly-BJP row over Imran photo continues
['There was no end in sight to the stand-off between president of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) Sourav Ganguly and the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).', 'Mr. Ganguly refused to remove the photograph of former Pakistan captain and Prime Minister Imran Khan from the club house of the iconic cricket stadium of Kolkata, the Eden Gardens.', 'Following a demonstration by the BJP workers on Saturday, Mr. Ganguly said he would “stick to his earlier position”.', 'On the other hand, the BJP’s State officials indicated that they would “continue with the stir if Mr. Ganguly continues to reject their demand”.', 'The club house also has photographs of Wasim Akram and Ramiz Raza, but the BJP has not demanded their removal. Following the Pulwama attack, the Cricket Club of India in Mumbai had removed the photograph of Mr. Khan from its restaurant. Other cricket associations followed suit, but Mr. Ganguly refused to budge.', 'The fight between Mr. Ganguly and the BJP, however, is interpreted in political circles as a proxy one between the BJP and Trinamool Congress.', 'Mr. Ganguly was favoured by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee when he was selected to lead the CAB, four years ago.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


THE DUTCH QUESTION
[]


Dawn in the Afternoon
[]


The Reluctant Designer
[]


SARI VS. STARRY (SAME OLD, SAME OLD)
[]


WHAT'S MARY KOM DOING ON A FASHION RAMP?
[]


DIOR BOOK CLUB
[]


Fashion Portal Peddles a Namrata Joshipura Reproduction
[]


Craftsy and Cool, Couture's First Day Out
[]


NO WHITE SPACE PLEASE
[]


Day One at Lakme Fashion Week - Winter-Festive 2012
[]


Ek Bungala Bane Nyaara
[]


DRESS APPROPRIATELY? TELL US HOW
[]


So what's a Guru Kurta?
[]


PARIS-BOMBAY IN VEGAS
[]


GAULTIER IN ALL GLORY
[]


Impossible Conversations and a Piece of the Sari
[]


Bollywood's Worst Dressed
[]


Dhoti Times
[]


SONIA GANDHI'S NEW COLOUR CARD
[]


Talking through fabric
[]


Red Soles, In The Red?
[]


THE COVER STORY
[]


Puneri Voice
[]


Portfolio 2012
[]


INDIAN FASHION: FORMIDABLE SOFT POWER
[]


Express Adda on Indian fashion's silver year
[]


NO TO NUDITY FOR CRICKET
[]


PANTS DOWN, THUMBS DOWN
[]


Scintillating Sonam
[]


Men Who Pause
[]


AISHWARYA L'OREAL BACHCHAN
[]


Zohal, Who?
[]


WHAT'S RITE WITH BATA
[]


KASHMIR CONSCIOUSNESS
[]


STARS IN HER EYES
[]


In cotton company
[]


Chanel's Black Magic
[]


FISH FRY, NEW RECIPE
[]


The Aishwarya Complex
[]


ASHIMA-LEENA'S AWADH
[]


Three Cheers
[]


Lecoanet Hemant's Fashmob--Spring Summer 2012
[]


Is Fashion Worth It?
[]


Notes from Fashion Week
[]


Three Questions, thirty answers
[]


For Starters...
[]


Crystal gazing
[]


Fashion's New Extras
[]


The Kingdom of Valaya through a fashion blogger's eyes
[]


Wake Up Designers
[]


The Age Issue
[]


The Devil Wrote
[]


Undressing the Oscars
[]


Future Tense
[]


Who is Afraid of Indian Fashion?
[]


Pod of small things
[]


Warp and Weft
[]


Tanvi Times
[]


Full time writers, part time fashion hacks
[]


Eyes on and off the runway
[]


Bejewelled Conversation
[]


Red Fetters, Pink Freedom
[]


Date with J J Valaya
[]


The Storm of Synthetic Bling
[]


A Mania called Manish Arora
[]


Sartorial Swearing In
[]


Jai Paro Devi
[]


Craft As Culture
[]


Now and Then
[]


The Wrap Designer's Rap
[]


Sparkling strategy
[]


It takes a village...
[]


Dark Lights
[]


Parmeshian style
[]


Notes from first row
[]


Car Seva
[]


Bowling for Pakistan
[]


Assam spurious liquor death toll mounts to 158
['The death toll in the Assam hooch tragedy rose to 158 on Tuesday while more than 300 people are still receiving treatment at hospitals in Jorhat and Golaghat districts, a health department official said.', 'A man undergoing treatment died on Tuesday at the Golaghat Civil Hospital, taking the toll in the district to 56. More than 50 people are still under care in the hospital, the official said.', 'In Jorhat district, 78 people were recorded to have died at Jorhat Medical College Hospital and another 20 were brought dead, while 260 are undergoing treatment, the official said. In Titabor sub-divisional hospital of Jorhat district, four persons had died so far, he added.', 'As many as 22 people have been arrested in connection with the hooch tragedy in Golaghat and Jorhat districts, police said.', 'Following Excise Minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s directions, the Excise department has launched a crackdown on sale and production of illicit liquor in both the districts as well as across the State to prevent recurrence of such tragedies in the future.', 'The State government has also banned the sale of ‘lali gur’ or red molasses used in production of country liquor.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Shifting of base camp improves water quality
['Sabarimala has started yielding positive results with the shifting of the pilgrims’ base camp to Nilackal during the just-concluded pilgrim season. At least, this is what a study conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) indicates.', 'The study report submitted to the government by PCB environmental engineer Alexander George said that the faecal coliform count in the Pampa waters had come down drastically to 56,000 per 100 ml of water on the last day of the 41-day Mandalam pilgrim season compared to its previous year’s count of 4,00,000.', 'However, the coliform count had gone up to 60,500 on the last day of the Makaravilaku pilgrim season on January 19 due to drastic depletion of the water level in the Pampa.', 'Interestingly, the faecal coliform count in the Pampa-Triveni and in the downstream of Njunangar stream was only 1,600 and 1,400 respectively on November 30, 2018. This had gone up to 42,000 and 60,500 by the last day of the pilgrim season in January.', 'According to Mr, George, denial of vehicle parking facility at Pampa-Triveni, Pampa-hilltop and Chakkupalam were positive steps leading to lesser pollution of the Pampa. The Nilackal-Pampa forest route too was comparatively clean as private vehicles were not allowed beyond Nilackal.', 'The report said that the working of the modern sewage treatment plant (STP) at the Sannidhanam was satisfactory. It also lauded the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) for properly maintaining the sewage network system.', 'Mr. George said disposal of food waste had been a problem as it attracted wild animals to the area on many occasions. Absence of biomedical waste disposal facility at the hospitals and other healthcare centres was another problem to be addressed at the earliest, he said.', 'He said capacity augmentation of the STP at Pampa to 10 mld capacity and setting up of another 10 mld STP at Nilackal had become a necessity. Mr. George said permanent toilet complexes were a better option than bio-toilets at Nilackal and Pampa to check open defecation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


SC posts Rafale reviews for hearing in open court
['A Rafale jet performing, during the AERO INDIA 2019 at IAF station Yelahanka, in Bengaluru.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error.', 'A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi on Tuesday posted the review petitions filed in the Rafale case against the December 14 judgment for open court hearing.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error. They want a “recall” of the verdict. The petitioners said the CAG was an independent constitutional body accountable only to the Parliament.', 'The petitions argue that the government’s claim that the CAG’s final report on Rafale would be in a redacted form was simply untrue. In fact, the government cannot dictate to the CAG what should or should not be redacted.', 'The petitioners has also questioned the judgment’s dismissal of lack of sovereign guarantee from the French government’s side as a “minor deviation”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


UDF talks on seat-sharing inconclusive
['With some of the partners in the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) sticking firmly to their demand for more seats, the first round of seat-sharing talks ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha elections remained inconclusive. But Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who spoke to the press after day-long talks at the Ernakulam Guest House, said the talks were friendly and peaceful.', 'He said the Kollam seat was being given to the RSP, which will decide the candidate to contest for the seat.', 'Mr. Chennithala said that both the IUML and Kerala Congress (Mani) had demanded one more seat each. The KC(M) demand will be discussed on March 3 in Ernakulam, while the IUML demand will be addressed at the Kozhikode meeting on March 1. Mr. Ramachandran will be present at both the discussions.', 'The IUML was represented by P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP; K.P.A. Majeed and M.K. Muneer. Mr. Kunhalikutty said at the end of their meeting with the Congress leadership that Tuesday’s was only a preliminary round of discussion and the issues raised at today’s meeting would be discussed more elaborately.', 'K.M. Mani, Jose K. Mani, MP, and P. J. Joseph participated in the talks for KC(M). Johny Nelloor of Kerala Congress (Jacob) said that his party had demanded the Idukki seat. C.P. John of the CMP also participated in the discussions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Too many contenders for Wayanad seat
['The death of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president M.I. Shanavas, who represented the Wayanad Lok Sabha seat twice in a row, appears to have thrown up a challenge for the Congress leadership to find a suitable candidate for the upcoming general elections.', 'With too many leaders from north Kerala throwing their hat into the ring, party sources said that choosing the appropriate among them was a daunting task as Wayanad constituency was spread over Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts.', 'Even senior KPCC leaders from southern districts too are vying for nomination. A reason cited for the presence of too many contenders is that the constituency is considered to be the safest for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State.', "KPCC member N.K. Abdurahiman, 64, chairman of the Karassery Service Cooperative Bank, had already announced that the seat should be offered to the 'I' group. Though his influence in the Kozhikode rural belt and Wayanad district remains indisputable, his candidature depends on the Congress high command taking into account his age and health.", 'Many other leaders, including former KPCC president M.M. Hassan and Kozhikode District Congress Committee president T. Siddique are keen to contest the polls.', 'Malappuram DCC president V.V. Prakash and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Shanimol Usman are also eyeing for nomination. Aryadan Shoukath, son of senior Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed, is another contender.', 'Mr. Shanavas won the Wayanad seat defeating M. Rahmathulla of the Communist Party of India (CPI) by a margin of 1,53,439 votes in the 2009 elections. This was when Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, who was with the Nationalist Congress Party then, secured 99,663 votes. Despite multiple forces working against him in the 2014 elections, Mr. Shanavas managed to romp home. His margin of victory came down to 20,870 votes.', 'The electoral success of the Congress candidate depends on several factors in the traditional UDF constituency. But groupism within the party has put up an obstacle this time even as alliance partners such as the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Kerala Congress (M) are demanding additional seats.', 'The Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency consists of Mananthavady, Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery (Wayanad district); Thiruvambady (Kozhikode district), and Nilambur, Wandoor and Eranad (Malappuram district) Assembly segments.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


News Analysis | Parsing Foreign Secretary's statement on Balakot air strikes
['The message clearly, say officials, is that India had carried out a “counter-terror strike” aimed at defending itself, rather than military aggression.', 'To begin with, unlike the September 2016 statement of the strikes that followed the Uri attack, where Director General of Military Operations Lt. Gen. Ranbir Singh addressed the press, this time it was India’s most senior career diplomat who made the announcement of the operations.', 'Next, Mr. Gokhale referred to the fact that the strike was pre-emptive and necessitated by the “credible intelligence” that the JeM was planning, at its training camp, more such attacks on India, where “fidayeen jihadis” were being trained. This indicates that the government did not intend the strike as just a “revenge operation”, but one carried out in self-defence, led by intelligence.', 'Significantly, while the Foreign Secretary described the location of the camp at Balakot, he gave no details of how the strike was actually carried out. “India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot. In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of Jihadis who were being trained for Fidayeen action were eliminated,” he said.', 'The omission of how the strike was carried out has led to speculation that while the target was deep inside Pakistani territory, not far from the cantonment town of Abbottabad, Indian jets may not have needed to cross too far in over the Line of Control.', 'According to military and diplomatic sources, this is the farthest Indian Air Force jets have crossed into Pakistani-held territory since 1971, but couldn’t confirm the actual distance inside Pakistan that was travelled.', 'Finally, Mr. Gokhale’s phrase “non-military pre-emptive action” aimed only at the JeM camp, not at military targets, and assiduously avoiding civilian casualties, is significant. The message that goes out is that India has done what it needed to do to defend itself, after being left with no other choice, and with no desire to engage militarily with Pakistan. The ball now, is in Pakistan’s court.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Rehabilitation homes: SC asks Chief Secys of all states to hold meeting with health ministry
['The Supreme Court on Monday directed chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories to hold a meeting in four weeks with the Union health secretary to chalk out a road map for setting up rehabilitation homes for people who have recovered from mental illness and are fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals.', 'A bench of justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta directed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to appoint a nodal officer to conduct the meeting.', 'The court, while was hearing a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, directed all the states and UTs to provide full data to the Ministry of Home Affairs on the status of mentally ill patients who are now fit to go home but are unable to do so.', 'It said that the data provided by the states must include roadmap regarding setting up for rehabilitation homes and based on it the Union ministry will prepare a report to be submitted in apex court before the next date of hearing.', 'The court warned that non compliance of the order will be treated as contempt of court and posted the matter for further hearing on May 1.', 'Mr. Bansal in his plea has said that around 10,000 persons, who are fit to be discharged, are forced to live in different mental hospitals and institutes due to social stigma.', 'On October 3, last year, the apex court had sought reports from all the states and Union Territories on the status of setting up rehabilitation homes for people with mental illness.', 'Several states and UTs have filed their response on the compliance of the Centre’s guidelines for setting up of rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness (who have been cured, or who do not need further hospitalization, or who are homeless or are not accepted by their families).', 'Mr. Bansal had earlier said that except for few, many states and UTs have not complied with the order of July 10, 2017, in which they were asked to implement the guidelines prepared by Centre within one year period.', 'States and UTs which have filed their response include Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya, Punjab, Nagaland, West Bengal, Telangana, Tripura, Delhi, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.', 'On July 10 last year, the apex court had taken on record the affidavit filed by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities of Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment by which it had highlighted the guidelines for the state governments for setting up rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness.', 'The apex court had asked the Union Ministry to circulate the guidelines to all the state governments and UTs, with a direction to implement them within one year.', 'It had also directed the state governments to comply with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and file a status report most definitely before August 1, 2018.', 'On February 14, the apex court had favoured framing of a uniform national policy to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals after being cured.', 'It had said that the issue concerned figured in the concurrent list of the Constitution and hence the Centre also has the authority to frame norms.', 'The PIL filed by Bansal has raised the issue of release of about 300 persons from various mental hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, alleging they were still languishing there despite being cured of their ailments and most of them belonged to poorer sections.', 'It has alleged that many underprivileged persons were still staying in mental hospitals despite being cured and there was no policy in place to ensure their well-being after release.', 'The plea also referred to responses received underI with regard to the release of persons living in mental hospitals in Bareilly, Varanasi and Agra in Uttar Pradesh even after being cured.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


SC transfers Kalburgi murder case to SIT probing Gauri Lankesh killing
['The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the transfer of the investigation into the murder of M.M. Kalburgi to the same Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing of journalist Gauri Lankesh.', 'A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and Vineet Saran directed the Dharwad Bench of the Karnataka High Court to monitor the SIT investigation.', 'The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'Initially, the court contemplated having the Bombay High Court monitor the Kalburgi case. The Bombay High Court is currently monitoring the murders ofactivists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. A line of argument had been raised before the Supreme Court that all four cases were inter-linked.', 'But Karnataka’s Additional Advocate General Devadutt Kamat objected, submitting that there was an SIT already probing the Lankesh case.', 'The court is hearing a petition filed by Umadevi Kalburgi for a comprehensive, fair and co-ordinated probe into the brutal deaths of her husband, Kalburgi, Lankesh, Dabholkar and Pansare.', 'The Karnataka government has always maintained that the investigation of both Kalburgi and Lankesh murders should remain in the State. Lankesh was shot dead in broad daylight in front of her Bengaluru residence on September 5, 2017. A Kendriya Sahitya Akademi awardee and anti-superstition activist, Kalburgi, was shot dead at his Bengaluru residence on August 30, 2015.', 'Umadevi believes the very same shooters behind the murders of Pansare on February 16, 2015 in Kolhapur, Maharashtra and Dr. Narendra Dabholkar on August 20, 2013 in Pune were behind her husband’s murder in 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Congress will protect the language and culture of northeast: Rahul Gandhi
['The Conress chief promises to restore ‘special status’ to Assam.', 'Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday asserted that his party will protect the culture, history and language of the northeast if voted to power.', 'Kicking off the poll campaign in Assam, Mr. Gandhi attacked the BJP and the RSS, accusing them of “burning” every state in the region.', 'Mr. Gandhi exuded confidence that the Congress will come to power at the Centre and work towards protecting the identity of the region.', 'He also promised to restore ‘special status’ to Assam and bring back the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIIPP).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pakistan denies IAF attack, vows to respond at the time and place of its choosing
['Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would respond to India’s claims of air strikes on targets on its territory.', "A statement from Pakistan’s National Security Committee (NSC) followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'The NSC meeting was attended by Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance and Chief of the Army Staff General Bajwa, among others. Prime Minister Imran Khan has urged people of Pakistan to remain prepared for all eventualities.', 'The government of Pakistan said that they will take domestic and international media to the impact zone that was hit by Indian payloads.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on Balakot terror camp: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Modi assures country in safe hands, says he will not let country down
['In his first public address after the air strikes on terror camps in Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country is in safe hands and nothing is above the nation. The Prime Minister also said that he will not let the country down.', 'I want to assure the people that the country is in safe hands. There is nothing above the nation, he said addressing a public meeting in Churu.', 'The Prime Minister, however, did not make a direct reference to the Balakot strikes.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders. The operation, described as a non-military, preemptive strike, was welcomed by the entire political spectrum and military experts who had been advocating retribution after the February 14 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama claimed by JeM.', 'Addressing the rally, Mr. Modi said he was able to work because the party is above individuals and the country was above the party.', 'He said with the sentiment of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan’, the country was progressing ahead. Referring to the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Mr. Modi said that first installment of Rs 2000 was directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers.', 'Attacking the Congress government in the state, he said unfortunately not a single farmer from Churu was among the beneficiaries as the Rajasthan government was stopping the benefits that Centre wants to pass on to them.', 'Rajasthan has not provided list of farmers for the scheme launched by the Centre. Welfare of poor and farmers is the priority of our government but it is sad that schemes meant for them are subjected to politics, he said.', 'Mr. Modi said welfare of farmers was among the priorities of the government but it hurts when schemes related to them is subjected to politics. He said the government was working on ‘Sabka sath sabka vikas’ model.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Refrain from plunging the region into war, Pak Opposition leader Shehbaz Sharif tells India
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


IAF Balakot air strike: Pakistani villagers say one person wounded in attack
['Pakistani villagers in the Balakot, the area where IAF’s pre-dawn air strike operation against Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camps was held, said they heard four loud bangs in the early hours of Tuesday but reported only one person wounded by bomb shards.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders, officials said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?"]


IAF strikes in Balakot: govt convenes all-party meeting, Sushma Swaraj to brief Opposition leaders
['The government has convened an all-party meeting on Tuesday where External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj will brief the leaders of Opposition parties on the pre-dawn air strikes by Indian Air Force jets on the Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camp at Bagalkot in Pakistan, sources said.', 'The meeting had been convened at at Jawahar Bhawan, which houses the Ministry of External Affairs.', 'In the air strikes, a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders were killed, officials said.', 'At a briefing earlier in the day, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale said credible intelligence was received that the JeM was planning to carry out other suicide attacks in India after the Pulwama bombing on a CRPF convoy 12 days ago that killed 40 jawans.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


NIA carries out raids on separatists, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in Kashmir
['The NIA on Tuesday carried out searches at the residences of nine separatist leaders in the Kashmir valley, including that of Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said.', 'Besides the Mirwaiz, the houses of JKLF’s Yasin Malik, Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s son Nayeem Geelani, Shabir Shah, Zaffar Bhat and Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai were also searched.', 'According to police officers, the NIA raids were carried out in a “illegal funding case” registered by the national agency in 2017 when it rounded up seven top separatist leaders from Kashmir.', 'The NIA officials were accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel as searches were carried out.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ayodhya title suit appeals: Supreme Court to pass order on March 5 on mediation
['A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', 'In a two-pronged approach, the Bench on Tuesday strongly pitched for the healing touch of an out-of-court settlement between the Muslim and Hindu parties through court-monitored mediation even as it simultaneously went ahead with preparations to finally hear the Ayodhya title suit appeals pending for almost nine years in the court.', 'Justice S.A. Bobde, on the Bench, said the mediation, if done, would be confidential and court-monitored. The Ayodhya dispute was "much more" than a mere property dispute. It has dragged on for decades. Mediation may result in the permanent resolution of the dispute. An effort should be made even if there is only a "one percent chance of success".', 'Eight weeks is the time given to the Muslim parties to examine the accuracy and relevance of the Uttar Pradesh government\'s official translation of thousands of pages of oral depositions and exhibits in the Ayodhya title suit appeals. Chief Justice Gogoi said a shot at mediation under Section 89 of the Civil Procedure Code would be an "effective utilisation of time" during the interregnum.', 'The CJI also expressed the hope that mediation may spell a peaceful end to the volatile dispute between two faiths over the land where the Babri Masjid once stood before it was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992.', 'The Muslim parties led by senior advocates Rajeev Dhawan and Dushyant Dave said the mediation route had been tried before, but their side was in "broad agreement" for another opportunity.', "The Uttar Pradesh government and senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, who represents deity Ram Lalla, both disagreed with the court's suggestion for a mediation. But Nirmohi Akhara, one of the Hindu organisations, said they were agreeable.", "Brushing aside the mixture of agreements and discontent expressed over the court's suggestion for mediation, the Bench made it clear in its order that Section 89 clothes the court with the power to override objections and push for a peaceful settlement of a dispute. The powers of the court under Section 89 is indeed unlimited.", 'The CJI observed in the order that a court-monitored mediation, if ordered, would be done with the "utmost confidentiality". The mediation would confront issues raised before the court in the appeals.', 'The court, however, deferred referring the dispute for mediation to March 5. "We will pass orders on Tuesday," Chief Justice Gogoi observed.', 'The hearing began with the CJI handing out and reading from a report of the Secretary General of the Supreme Court about the state of readiness of the Ayodhya title suit appeals.', 'The CJI said documents numbered 38471 pages. "If the official translations filed by the Uttar Pradesh government is acceptable to all, the case should commence hearing. Once proceedings start, there should not be any contest to the accuracy of the translations," he observed.', 'Mr. Dhawan said his clients should be given an opportunity to examine the translations of the State government.', 'But Mr. Vaidyanathan protested that Mr. Dhawan, appearing for appellant M. Siddique, was trying to delay hearing of the appeals.', 'He said several orders had been passed by the apex court as way back as in 2015, giving opportunity to Mr. Dhawan\'s side to examine the State\'s translations and report back. "For all these years, they did nothing and now they raise objections," Mr. Vaidyanathan countered Mr. Dhawan.', 'But Mr. Dhawan submitted that there may have been some "exchanges" in the past, but those necessarily did not amount to discussions on the accuracy of the translations. "That penultimate exercise has to take place," he said.', 'But Chief Justice Gogoi indicated that the court does not intend to wait indefinitely to hear the appeals. "We will not waste our time over your dispute about the authenticity of the translations," he said.', 'The court said it was necessary to reach a consensus on the authenticity of the translations so that no controversy would be raised later that would derail the proceedings in the appeals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


12 Mirage-2000 jets hit Balakot in Pakistan: sources
['The Mirages-2000s used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance.', 'This was India’s response to the Pulwama terror attack which killed 40 paramilitary personnel. This is a departure from the earlier surgical strikes of 2016 where Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.', 'Balakot is about 50 kilometres from the LoC. It is in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan and about two hours drive from Abbottabad.', 'This image made out of Google Maps locates Balakot town in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan.', 'SPICE stands for ‘Smart, Precise Impact and Cost-Effective’ — a kit which converts a conventional bomb into a smart munition and is manufactured by Rafael of Israel. The ‘2000’ denotes a 1,000 kg bomb. The PGM enables the aircraft to fire them from standoff distances staying away from harm’s way and the munitions glide to the target once launched.', 'The IAF’s Central Air Command led the air strikes. Both the Israeli Phalcon and indigenous Netra early warning aircraft were deployed to monitor the mission, to direct the aircraft as well as keep an eye on Pakistani F-16s that might be deployed to counter them and a Heron long-range UAV was in the air for monitoring.', 'The Mirages used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance. It is not clear though how much inside the LoC did the Mirages go to release the munitions.', 'Another source said the initial Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) is that the hit was 100% and all aircraft returned safely. Further details from the assessment are awaited.', 'As India explored military options in response to the terror attack, a repeat of a ground strike was ruled out as the element of surprise was lost and there was a risk of casualties.', 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on Pakistani soil and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into Pakistani air space. Even during Kargil conflict, IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'A senior Army officer posted along the LoC said Pakistan had quickly ramped up its military deployments on their side soon after the Pulwama attack on February 14. “We cannot do a ground strike as they are ready,” he stated. However, he added that the Army was put on high alert since Pulwama anticipating escalation in ceasefire violations and cross-border firing by Pakistan Army.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pak drone shot down near Gujarat border
['Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch.', 'A Pakistani unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was on Tuesday shot down near the International Border in Kutch district of Gujarat, police sources said.', 'Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they said.', 'On hearing a loud sound around 6 am, villagers went to the spot and found the debris of the UAV, the sources said.', 'The official, however, refused to elaborate further.', 'Earlier, government sources said that in a pre-dawn strike, combat jets of Indian Air Force bombed terror camps at multiple locations across the Line of Control on the Pakistani side, 12 days after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group carried out the dastardly Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'They said the IAF’s Mirage 2000 fighter jets pounded the terror camps in Balakot, Muzaffarabad and Chakoti in the well-planned strike destroying Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps.', 'Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the operation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?
["IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'He is reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale on Tuesday confirmed that India had “struck the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot", in the early hours of Tuesday.', 'He said the strikes took place on a hilltop in a forest location far from civilian areas and that the JeM camp was run by Yusuf Azhar, reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Yusuf Azhar alias Mohammad Salim was one of the men who hijacked the Indian Airline flight IC 814 to Kandahar in 1999. The JeM chief was then released by India in exchange for the IC- 814 hijacked passengers.', "In 2002, the government handed over a list of 20 fugitives to Islamabad and it had Yusuf Azhar's name.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


VVIP chopper case: Delhi court extends judicial custody of Christian Michel by one day
['Special judge Arvind Kumar extended his custody in the case lodged by CBI.', 'Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22 last year.', 'Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Aerial strikes on JeM camp: political leaders laud IAF | Live updates
['A number of terrorists at the JeM camp in Balakot were killed, confirms Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale also said a number of terrorists were eliminated in the air strike.', 'The RSS congratulates the government and the Indian Air Force for the air strikes, saying they have translated into action the angry feelings of Indians following the Pulwama attack.', 'Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh general secretary Suresh Joshi in a statement says that these air strikes caused no harm to the Pakistani army and civilians which, he added, is tune with the “Bharatiya” (Indian) culture.', 'Chairman of People’s Conference in Kashmir Sajad Gani Lone says the air strikes will set a benchmark for deterrence and eventually end the cycle of violence.', 'Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik hails the Air Force for its pre-dawn air strikes. “I salute the Indian Air Force for having taken action to protect our country,” he says.', 'The Indian Air Force’s strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan underscores the will and resolve of a new India, says BJP president Amit Shah. He asserts that it shows that the country is safe under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s strong and decisive leadership.', 'Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy lauds the Prime Minister for the air strikes. He commends Mr. Modi for his “bold” efforts against terrorism. Mr. Modi was tasting success in rooting out terrorism, which was threatening the entire world, the Chief Minister says in a statement and congratulates him on behalf of the State people.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes. The entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces, he says.', 'Narendra Modi had given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead, he points out.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', "Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan 'welcomes' the air strikes and ’salutes’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.", 'West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hails IAF for carrying out the air strikes.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


'India struck biggest training camp of JeM' - full statement from Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale
['India carried out an operation targeting the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale confirmed on Tuesday at a press conference in New Delhi. He said that the Government of India is taking all measures to counter terrorism and Tuesday’s strike was necessary to pre-empt further terror attacks against India.', 'India conducts air-strikes: follow live updates here.', 'He emphasised that the outfit was responsible for the attack against the CRPF personnel in Pulwama and urged Pakistan to live up to its public commitment against terrorism and take further actions against JeM and other camps.', 'On 14 February 2019, a suicide terror attack was conducted by a Pak-based terrorist organization Jaish-e-Mohammad, leading to the martyrdom of 40 brave jawans of the CRPF.\xa0 JeM has been active in Pakistan for the last two decades, and is led by MASOOD AZHAR with its headquarters in Bahawalpur.', 'This organization, which is proscribed by the UN, has been responsible of a series of terrorist attacks including on the Indian Parliament in December 2001 and the Pathankot airbase in January 2016.', 'Information regarding the location of training camps in Pakistan and PoJK has been provided to Pakistan from time to time.\xa0 Pakistan, however, denies their existence.\xa0 The existence of such massive training facilities capable of training hundreds of jidhadis could not have functioned without the knowledge of Pakistan authorities.', 'India has been repeatedly urging Pakistan to take action against the JeM to prevent jihadis from being trained and armed inside Pakistan.\xa0 Pakistan has taken no concrete actions to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on its soil.', 'Credible intelligence was received that JeM was attempting another suicide terror attack in various parts of the country, and the fidayeen jihadis were being trained for this purpose.\xa0 In the face of imminent danger,\xa0 a preemptive strike became absolutely necessary.', 'In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by MAULANA YOUSUF AZHAR (alias USTAD GHOURI), the brother-in-law of MASOOD AZHAR, Chief of JeM.', 'The Government of India is firmly and resolutely committed to taking all necessary measures to fight the menace of terrorism.\xa0 Hence this non-military preemptive action was specifically targeted at the JeM camp.\xa0 The selection of the target was also conditioned by our desire to avoid civilian casualties.\xa0 The facility is located in thick forest on a hilltop far away from any civilian presence.\xa0 As the strike has taken place only a short while\xa0 ago, we are awaiting further details.', 'The Government of Pakistan had made a solemn commitment in January 2004 not to allow its soil or territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India.\xa0 We expect that Pakistan lives up to its public commitment and takes follow up actions to dismantle all JeM and other camps and hold the terrorists accountable for the actions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Chennai-Mangalore Mail derailed near Shoranur
['Two coaches of Chennai-Mangalore Superfast Mail (12601) derailed near Shoranur Railway station on Tuesday morning. The train was entering the station when it derailed.', 'The incident happened at 6.40 a.m. No one was injured in the accident. \xa0\xa0The train was detailed near the yard, where trains enter the station from the Palakkad side.', 'Two coaches adjacent to the engine, the parcel van and the first coach, were derailed. The electric posts near the railway line were damaged.', 'One parcel van next to the Locomotive and one coach attached to it came off the rails as the train was entering Road 7 of Shoranur Yard from Palakkad side at around 6.30 am.', 'The rail traffic on Shoranur-Thrissur route, which was disrupted for more than three hours, has been partially resumed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


AIADMK, BJP will lose for tie-up with PMK: Elangovan
['Former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president E.V.K.S. Elangovan has said that by joining hands with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-AIADMK alliance will lose the deposit in all the 40 Lok Sabha constituencies.', 'Mr. Elangovan told mediapersons here on Monday that the PMK did not fulfil its promises in the past 20 years and was using the elections for political trade. After having attacked the AIADMK, the PMK had now become it ally, but it would be of no use electorally.', 'Asked about no progress having been made so far in the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) – AIADMK alliance talks, Mr. Elangovan said the DMDK would vanish after the elections.', 'The visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah would not bring any change in the State, he said, and added that the people had accepted Congress president Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Ministerial candidate.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Special trains announced for summer season
['The Southern Railways has announced special trains in April and May to handle passenger traffic during summer season.', 'Train No.06038 Ernakulam Junction-Chennai Central special fare special train will depart from Ernakulam Junction at 7.40 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30. The train would reach Chennai Central at 9.35 a.m. on the next day.', 'The train is composed of one AC 2-tier, two AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. The train will stop at Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam and Perambur.', 'Train No. 06059 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram Central special fare special train will leave Chennai Central at 7 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30 except April 18 and May 23 and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.45 a.m. the next day.', 'Train No.06060 Thiruvananthapuram Central – Chennai Central special fare special train will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3.45 p.m on Wednesdays between April 3 and May 29 and reach Chennai Central at 9.45 a.m the next day.', 'Both the trains will have two AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Kollam, Kayankulam, Mavellikara, Chengannur, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Tiruvananthapuram Central to Chennai Central Special fare special train will stop at Perambaur also.', 'Train No.06026 Tiruchchirappalli – Ernakulam Junction special fare special train will leave Tiruchchirappalli at 2.20 p.m. on Saturdays between April 6 and May 25 except April 13 and reach Ernakulam Junction at 8.45 a.m. the next day.', 'The trains are composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Melmarvathur, Chengalpattu, Tambaram, Chennai Egmore, Arakkonam, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrissur, Aluva and Ernakulam Town.', 'Train No.06033 Chennai Central - Coimbatore special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 8.45 p.m. on Mondays between April 8 and May 27 and reach Chennai Central at 4.15 a.m the next day.', 'The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Train No.06025 Coimbatore - Tiruchchirappalli special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 9.15 p.m. Tuesdays between April 9 and May 28 and it will reach reach Tiruchchirappalli at 11.15 a.m. the next day. The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier,three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam, Perambur, Chennai Egmore, Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Melmarvathur, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur and Srirangam.', 'Advance reservations for the special trains have begun.', 'The Railway Board has approved additional stop for Chennai Central – Mangalore – Chennai Central Express at Jolarpettai.', 'According to a release, the additional stop has been approved for Train No. 12685 / 12686 on experimental basis for a period of six months, till August 23.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Live | IAF strikes on JeM camp in Balakot: residents thought a quake hit the region
['Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing an election rally at Churu in Rajasthan.', 'India on Tuesday briefed envoys of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council about the IAF’s “non-military pre-emptive action” on the biggest training camp of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, which had claimed responsibility for the Pulwama terror attack.', 'Sources said Foreign Secretary Vijay K. Gokhale and secretaries in the External Affairs Ministry briefed foreign envoys, including those of the five permanent members (P-5) of the United Nations Security Council — the US, Britain, France, Russia and China.', 'Gokhale had met around 25 envoys, including those from P-5 nations, a day after the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed.', 'Residents in the quake-prone Balakot town in Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday said they were woken by “loud explosions” and thought a fresh tremor must have hit the region when Indian Air Force jets pounded a large terror training camp.', 'Balakot town in Pakistan’s north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province was destroyed during the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and was rebuilt with assistance from Saudi Arabia.', 'He said they thought an earthquake must have hit the region.', 'The Election commission of India held a press conference in Mumbai after a review of the election preparedness in Maharashtra. Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa says the Commission was keeping a watch on the developments on the border.', "Tuesday's air strikes was a departure from the surgical strikes of 2016 where the Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.", 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on the Pakistani soil and the PoK and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into the Pakistani air space. Even during the Kargil conflict, the IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'Yousuf Azhar, who headed the Balakot-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror camp destroyed by Indian fighter jets in the pre-dawn strikes, is wanted by the CBI in the IC-814 hijacking case with a pending Interpol red corner notice against him since 2000, according to officials.', 'The red corner notice was issued on the request of the CBI against seven accused in the hijacking of the Indian Airlines plane from Kathmandu to Kandahar in southern Afghanistan on December 24, 1999 — Yousuf Azhar, Ibrahim Athar, Sunny Ahmed Qazi, Zahoor Ibrahim, Shahid Akhter, Sayed Shakir and Abdul Rauf, they said.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale, while briefing the media in the morning on the “intelligence-led operation” on the Pakistan-based terror group’s biggest training camp in Balakot, said the facility was headed by Yousuf Azhar alias Ustad Ghouri.', 'Brother-in-law of Jaish chief Masood Azhar, Yousuf Azhar with red corner notice number A-565/6-2000 and Rauf with notice number A-566/6-2000 are key conspirators in the Kandahar plane hijack case.', "Pakistan says it will respond to India’s claims of strikes on targets on its territory. A statement from the National Security Committee followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'Forum strongly rejected Indian claim of targeting an alleged terrorist camp near Balakot and the claim of heavy casualties. Once again Indian government has resorted to a self serving, reckless and fictitious claim.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, says a media report, quoting sources.', 'The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan and attended by the top civil and military leadership, including Army chief General Qamar Jawed Bajwa, reports Geo TV.', 'Earlier in the day, a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was held at Mr. Modi’s residence. The meeting was attended by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and other top government officials.', "The pre-dawn air strikes by the Air Force's Mirage fighter jets was on a JeM training camp located in Balakot inside Pakistan and not the one in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), a senior IAF source said.", 'Balakot, about 40-50 km from the LoC, is situated in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is about two hours’ drive from Abbottabad.', 'The JeM camp was situated on the Kunhar river. "The camp offered possibility of aquatic training to terrorists also. The camp housed more than 200 terrorists. The trainers were ex-Army personnel," an intelligence official said.', 'Before the inception of the JeM,\xa0 the camp was used by the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, another terror outfit supported by Pakistan and active in Jammu and Kashmir.', 'Former Director of Public Affairs and Spokesperson to The National Security Council of Afghanistan, Tawab Ghorzang, in tweets, congratulates the IAF.', 'BJP MLAs were marshalled out of the Delhi Assembly for chanting pro-Modi slogans instead of hailing the Indian Air Force, says Speaker Ram Niwas Goel.', 'Who is Yusuf Azhar?', 'Maulana Yusuf Azhar is one of the terrorists who reportedly headed the JeM camp, which was struck by the IAF. He is reportedly brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, JeM chief.', 'Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi says India has committed an “aggression” by violating the LoC, and Islamabad has the "right to respond".', 'Debris of the UAV are seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they say.', 'The official, however, refuses to elaborate further.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', 'Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) President Kamal Haasan welcomes the air strikes and ’saluted’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.', 'So it is Balakote in KPK. That’s a strike deep inside Pakistan & is hugely embarrassing for them. Regardless of what the other side may claim was or wasn’t hit the planes crossed over, dropped their payload & flew back completely unscathed.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale says the JeM terror camp in Balakot was destroyed. "In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by Maulana Yousuf Azhar (alias Ustad Ghouri), the brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, Chief of JeM," he says.', 'Despite many questions, Mr. Gokhale does not confirm the location of Balakot.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes, saying the entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces.', 'He says Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action against following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead.', 'The Indian Army tweets a Hindi poem, which says, “If you are docile and polite before the enemy, he may consider you as a coward, the way Kauravas treated Pandavas".', 'The poem by Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ was tweeted by Additional Director General, Public Information on its official handle.', 'Mr. Qureshi will meet Prime Minister Imran Khan after the meeting.', 'Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha says high alert has been sounded in the State.', 'The DGP asks the SPs & range IGs to remain stationed at their respective headquarters.', 'Additional deployment has also been rushed to the International Border and LoC in Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch. "Yes, the security grid has been tightened," says an official on the condition of anonymity.', 'Meanwhile, restrictions are in place in parts of Srinagar and the Internet speed dialed down.', 'Minister of State for Agriculture Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirms on Twitter that the air strikes took place.', "An image of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's tweet.", 'Major General Asif Ghafoor, Director General of Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the media wing of the Pakistan Army, tweets, saying there are no casualties and no infrastructure damage.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are present at the meeting.', 'The Congress also lauds the role of the Indian Air Force in keeping Indians safe with its consistent and determined effort.', 'Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah says he will wait for official confirmation. "Wow, if this is true this was not a small strike by any stretch of imagination but will wait for official word, should any be forthcoming," he tweets.', 'Mr. Ghafoor also tweets images that he claims to be of the site of the alleged payload drop.', 'Payload of hastily escaping Indian aircrafts fell in open.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


When will all liquor outlets be closed: HC
['The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday suo motu impleaded the Principal Secretary to the Home, Prohibition and Excise Department and the Managing Director of Tasmac as respondents in a public interest litigation petition that sought the closure of a Tasmac shop near Palliagraharam bus stop in Thanjavur.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar observed: “The ruling party gave an assurance in their party’s election manifesto that in a phased manner Tasmac shops would be closed in Tamil Nadu. However, many Tasmac shops are said to be opened in Tamil Nadu every day contrary to the assurance given by the ruling party in the poll manifesto for the elections held in 2016”.', 'Like in previous cases, the court put forth a set of queries for the State to respond. It wanted to know the number Tasmac shops set up prior to 2016, the number of outlets closed since then, shops opened after 2016 and the income earned since 2016 and when all the liquor shops would be closed down.', 'The court sought for a district-wise breakup on the data in the report.', 'It summoned the Managing Director of Tasmac asking him to inform the court on the details on March 4. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Mahendran of Thanjavur. It granted an interim injunction and adjourned the hearing to March 4.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM counters Stalin’s barb at PMK
['Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled the bronze statue of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at the AIADMK party office in Dharmapuri on Monday.', 'All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday countered Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin’s barbs at the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) for aligning with the ruling party, by questioning Mr. Stalin for the alliance with the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK).', 'At the 71st birth anniversary celebrations of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he said the AIADMK had formed a “mega alliance” and a “winning alliance”. According to him, Tamil Nadu would be safe under the “talented” leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.', 'At Harur, one of the 21 assembly constituencies where a bypoll is due, Mr. Palaniswami urged the cadres to teach a fitting lesson to the “traitors” who followed Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran.', 'Training his guns on Mr. Stalin, the Chief Minister said the DMK stood for dynastic politics and had scuttled development in the State. “Each time Karunanidhi made a trip to Delhi, it was to bargain for a post for his son, daughter and nephew,” he alleged.', 'This would be the first general elections faced by the party without Jayalalithaa and it was left to the cadres to work hard to ensure the victory of the AIADMK alliance, Mr. Palaniswami said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Erode Corpn. to establish 3.5-MW solar power plant
['With electricity charges increasing for the Erode Corporation year after year, the civic body has decided to establish a 3.5-MW solar power plant at ₹ 20.85 crore.', 'The civic body has been selected in Phase IV of the Smart Cities Mission by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India, for implementing projects worth ₹ 1,000 crore last year. Hence, to implement the projects, a special purpose vehicle, “Erode Smart City Limited”, was formed and registered under the Companies Act 2013.', 'The Corporation is utilising six high tension services from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation with a power demand of 1,745 KVA. The average power consumption from the services is around 1.20 crore kilowatt hour per annum. Since the utility charges, including lighting and pumping, are increasing, majority of the revenue share has been spent on paying electricity charges.', 'To reduce the electricity charges, the civic body has decided to install solar power plant under the smart city projects. The return on investment is around 5.5 years and the plant requires very less operation and maintenance cost when compared to other non-conventional power plants. The proposed solar power plant is to be set up under the long-term open access method.', 'Based on the availability of land and evacuation capacity, the Corporation has proposed the 3.5-MW power plant outside the Area Based Development area as there is no space available within the area of the smart city for providing ground-mounted solar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Battery-operated car for Perundurai Medical College
['The battery-operated car at the IRT Perundurai Medical College in Perundurai.', 'To serve the needs of patients visiting the IRT Perundurai Medical College, a battery-operated car was inducted into service here on Sunday.', 'Under the MLA Local Area Development Fund, Perundurai MLA Thoppu. N.D. Venkatachalam purchased a car at ₹ 8 lakh that was handed over to the college to mark the 71st birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa here. The key was handed over to Dean M. Rajendran.', 'Mr. Venkatachalam said that the medical college was one of the premier government medical institutions where hundreds of patients visited every day. Hence, the battery-operated car would help the patients move inside the hospital premises.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


41 publications of The Hindu given to 50 government school libraries
['In Krishnagiri, the initiative was partly steered under the aegis of IVDP, a Krishnagiri-based NGO, that sponsored books for 50 government higher secondary schools.', 'IVDP has sponsored books worth ₹12.5 lakh for government schools in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore.', 'Collector S. Prabhakar presided over the event, and IVDP founder Kulandai Francis took part.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gobi GH gets modern equipment
['Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan inaugurating the new facilities at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam on Monday.', 'To ensure advanced medical treatment for patients, equipment worth ₹ 1.47 crore were commissioned at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam here on Monday.', 'Also, Samsung Electronics sponsored modern digital x-ray machine (₹ 83.03 lakh), ultra sound scan machine (₹ 40.18 lakh) and refrigerator, LED television and air conditioners (₹ 1.91 lakh) to the hospital. The Minister inaugurated these machines for the public use.', 'Deputy Director (Health Services) S. Soundammal, and Chief Civil Surgeon Medical Officer P.T. Anandan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Integrated apparel manufacturing park to provide jobs to 7,000 people
['The district’s first integrated apparel manufacturing park called “Gobi Apparel Park” that is to come up at ₹ 106.58 crore at Kolapalur village at Gobichettipalayam is expected to provide jobs to 7,000 persons.', 'Under funding from the Ministry of Textiles of the Government of India and under the Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP) of the State Government, the park is being established that will have common facilities and other infrastructure to house 12 companies.', 'While the foundation was laid for establishing 11 companies, one company was inaugurated by Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, Tirupur MP V. Sathyabama, MLAs and other officials here on Monday.', 'Mr. Sengottaiyan said the park would come up on 80 acre and provide jobs directly to 7,000 people.', 'The park would be provided with all the basic amenities, effluent and sewage treatment plants, uninterrupted power supply and wider roads. Also, quality testing centre, skill development centre, and modern accommodation for 3,000 works would also be established.', 'The Minister said that children’s home, sports ground, old age home, community hall and other facilities would also be established in the park. He said that 2,500 people would be trained in the park every year and they could secure jobs anywhere in the country.', 'Mr. Karuppannan said the other 11 companies would be established soon and called upon entrepreneurs to utilise the facilities in the park.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Collector receives water award
['Union Minister Nitin Gadkari honours Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation has honoured Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan with ‘National Water Award – 2019’.', 'Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways, Shipping and Water Resources Nitin Gadkari presented the award to the Collector at the National Water Awards presentation ceremony held in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Collector won third prize in ‘rejuvenation/creation of water bodies’ category in southern region comprising Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The award carried a citation.', 'The national water award was recognition for his efforts to restore and rejuvenate several water bodies in Sivaganga district. The district administration had applied for the award only in that category and it would strive to get prizes in other categories as well in the coming years, he added.', 'The Collector won the Centre’s appreciation for rejuvenating three major ooranies — Mayana Oorani, Chetti Oorani and Teppakulam — after evicting 25 encroachments and desilting their inlet and outlet channels.', 'The Sivaganga Teppakulam, located in the centre of the district, brimmed with water after a gap of 26 years thanks to the restoration works.', 'On being diverted, water from Periyar channel reached the tank, traversing more than 35 km. Several tanks and ponds and their supply channels were also desilted in the district, according to the district officials.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Public welcome to join as FoP: Theni SP
['Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran addressing students aspiring to join as Friends of Police in Theni on Monday.', 'Welcoming the public initiative to be ‘Friends of Police’, Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said their role would be immensely useful and commendable to society.', 'Addressing a large gathering of students and residents, he said with rise in population, problems were growing everywhere. While a majority of them could be solved then and there, any neglect of the issues would lead to unwanted conflicts.', 'On such occasions, the Friends of Police (FoPs) could play a pivotal role in bringing peace instantly. A call to the police or any specific officer would be vital, Mr. Baskaran said and added that most of the problems were either petty or personal in nature.', 'As for road accidents reported in the district, the SP said rash and negligent driving, drunken driving and lack of sleep were major factors. While educational institutions and service organisations came in handy in educating road users, the government too, through Road Safety Week, disseminated about the need to follow rules.', 'Further, Mr. Baskaran said the district police had purchased gadgets such as breath-analyser, speed radar guns and planned to install more mobile barricades and put up CCTV cameras at vantage locations.', 'The FoPs were also told about their role on how to handle emergencies in the event of a road accident. Similarly, police officers from the law and order wing also shared inputs expected from FoPs. The cell phone numbers of police stations, Inspectors and DSPs were shared with the members. The FoPs were told to download the App of the emergency vehicle service operator - 108 - as it would help in identifying the location of the caller and rush the vehicle to the spot.', 'As many as 357 men and 180 women participated in the meeting. Both men and women police officers from various police stations and sub-division were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Those involved in Jayalalithaa’s death will go behind bars: Stalin
['Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin on Monday said those involved in the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa would find themselves behind bars if his party was voted to power.', 'Speaking at a gram sabha meeting at Melakootudangadu in Ottapidaram constituency, he said updates regarding the health of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi was given twice every day, while the health status of the AIADMK leader was shrouded in mystery during her hospitalisation.', 'He slammed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for not responding to allegations about his involvement in the murder of five persons in the Kodanad case. Mr. Stalin said the government had killed 13 persons in the anti-Sterlite agitation in a planned manner. The DMK had been stressing policy decision against the industry, but the government did not seem to be interested.', 'The recommendations of retired High Court judge M.S. Janarthanam would be implemented and demands of Devendra Kula Vellalar community would be fulfilled. “The current government has discarded the committee’s findings. But the DMK will pass a Government Order to fulfil their demands,” he said.', 'Women who attended the gram sabha meeting put forth a number of issues like lack of road facilities, drinking water, lack of revolving funds for self-help groups, irregular supply at fair price shops, among others.', 'Speaking about water issues, Mr. Stalin said the DMK implemented the Hogenakkal, Vellore and Ramanathapuram combined water schemes when he was the Minister of Local Administration. The schemes helped in bringing down water-borne diseases caused by consumption of contaminated drinking water.', 'A number of schemes such as old age pension and disbursement of revolving funds to SHGs, launched by fromer Chief Minister Karunanidhi, were not being implemented properly by the current regime, he added.', 'Earlier, he visited the family of Subramaniyan, the CRPF jawan who was killed in Pulwama attack, at Savalaperi, and consoled his family. He gave a compensation of ₹ 2 lakh to the family members. In the evening, he also participated a gram sabha meeting at Vembar in Vilathikulam constituency. MP Kanimozhi, former Ministers I. Periyasamy, K.N. Nehru and Anitha R. Radhakrishnan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Self-immolation bid by woman thwarted at Collectorate
['The Collectorate, which witnessed gruesome self-immolation of a usury victim and his family members 16 months ago, was about to witness a similar incident on Monday when a woman attempted to immolate herself.', 'After usury victim Eskkimuthu of Kasidharmam near Tenkasi immolated himself and his family members on the Collectorate premises in October 2017 while the Collector was receiving petitions from the public at the weekly grievance day meeting, security was beefed up on the Collecotrate premises. To ensure regularised entry of public into the Collectorate with inflammable materials, some of the entry points were closed permanently.', 'Moreover, the petitioners are frisked thoroughly before they enter the Collectorate through the main entrance to submit petitions to the Collector on Mondays. Still, citing official apathy, self-immolation bids are made by aggrieved petitioners near the main entrance.', 'On Monday, A. Rajammal, 65, of Tenkasi, who managed to bring kerosene till the District Development Council Hall, splashed it all over her body. But before she lighted the matchstick, those standing nearby thwarted the attempt and alerted the police.', 'During enquiry, the woman told the police that she had given money to a few people in Tenkasi for buying a house. “When they failed to keep the promise, I asked them to return my money. But they not only refused but also threatened me. I filed a complaint with Tenkasi police but they did not take any action. I also gave petitions to the Superintendent of Police three times and twice to the Collector. But they also did not take action. Hence, I decided to kill myself. Though public thwarted my attempt today, I’ll kill myself soon if the police do not take action against those who cheated me,” Mrs. Rajammal said. The police took the woman to Palayamkottai police station for enquiry and released her later.', 'Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling the State’s health helpline, ‘104,’ or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Repair faulty overhead tank,mitigate water crisis: villagers
['Condemning erratic water supply, a group of residents from Sivanthipuram, a village on the bank of the Tamirabharani near Ambasamudram, submitted a petition at the Collectorate here on Monday.', 'The petitioners said they were getting drinking water once in six days only though their village is situated right on the bank of the Tamirabharani and only a few km away from Papanasam dam through which the perennial river reaches the plains from the Western Ghats. An overhead tank was constructed two years ago for improving drinking water supply. But due to faulty construction, the tank could not be used as there was a profuse leakage of water during the trial stage itself. Now cracks had developed in the structure owing to extreme heat.', 'When contacted, officials said regular water supply could be ensured only after the cracks were cemented. So, the work should be expedited, the villagers said.', 'Members of Tirunelveli District Pothunala Sangam, led by Mohammed Ayub, said ceiling fans in Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School were switched off by teachers so as to minimise power consumption. As the children were put to much discomfort in the sweltering summer heat, teachers should be instructed to switch on the ceiling fans during class hours. The toilets should also be properly maintained with adequate water facility and doors, they said.', 'Members of Suthamalli Bharathi Nagar Pothunala Sangam said the railways had constructed a wall across a path used by residents for the past several decades to take bodies to a cremation ground. The district administration should hold talks with the railway administration and make efforts to ensure that they could continue to use the path.', 'A group of students of Government Law College, Tirunelveli, staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate to highlight their demands of naming Madurai airport after Immanuel Sekaran and removing Devendrakula Vellaalar from the list of Scheduled Castes.', 'Members of Thamizh Puligal, a Dalit organisation, staged a demonstration demanding retrieval of a ‘public utility land’ at Kasimajorpuram, which had been “encroached upon” by an individual.', 'After the State government announced free house sites would be given to below-poverty-line families living on government poramboke lands, a few hundred petitions were submitted on Monday seeking land for constructing house. Hundreds of petitions were also submitted seeking the State government’s special financial assistance of ₹2,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Officials start sealing illegal buildings
['Confusion and uneasy moments prevailed after municipal authorities stepped up action to seal buildings violating norms in Kodaikanal in Dindigul district on Monday.', 'Following a directive from the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, the officials informed the court that around 1,400 buildings, including commercial structures, dwellings and private clinics, violated the norms.', 'When the court fixed an action plan to clean up illegal and unauthorised construction, officials held out the assurance that they would follow the instructions and file a compliance report soon.', 'As part of the assurance, officials sealed 44 buildings and the drive was intensified with more field staff being deployed, a senior official from the district administration said.', 'As per law, the violators were served notice and, subsequently, they were sealed. “The next step will be to demolish the illegal portion of the building,” said an official.', 'Meanwhile, some of the traders and office-bearers of the hotelier association appealed to the officials to stop the action as a section of them had approached the HC bench seeking relief.', 'Not in a mood to relent, the officials at the municipal office here said they were proceeding as per norms and would file their reports with the court directly. “Any failure would mean contempt of court,” they said.', 'A large posse of police personnel were deployed with the officials.', 'Activist and NGOs, voicing for a clean and green Kodai, welcomed the move of the HC Bench. They also wanted it to order a probe against corrupt officials who were “soft” with the violators all these years. “Their ill-gotten wealth should be confiscated,” they said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Contract labourers sacked by NTPL seek reinstatement
['Seeking solution: NTPL contract workers at the Thoothukudi Collectorate on Monday.', 'Members of Central Organisation for Electricity Employees-CITU submitted a petition at the Collectorate seeking reinstatement of contract labourers of the NLC Tamil Nadu Power Limited (NTPL), who were fired recently.', 'S. Appadurai, secretary of the association, said 40 contract employees of the NTPL were sent off recently, in violation of an order by the Regional Labour Commissioner in an industrial dispute, saying the status quo should prevail. The contract workers have not been made permanent, and are given a much lower pay despite their work being perennial in nature, he said.', 'Members of CPI(M), led by Kovilpatti party town secretary Murugan and Thoothukudi town secretary Raja, sought the widening of the Manthithoppu Road in Kovilpatti citing the problem of traffic congestion on especially narrow sections of the road. The party members also demanded that government and private buses plying between Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur should halt at Mullakadu, where about 500 passengers, including school children, used the service.', 'Around 10 transwomen submitted a petition seeking jobs at anganwadi centres. They said that they had been applying for the job over the last two years and sought their appointment this year.', 'Vinoth Kumar, district secretary of PMK, sought action against those involved in sand mining near Vaippar after getting permission for using savadu soil (fertile sediment). He said that a resident of Dindigul, who had received permission for using the soil on patta lands, was digging up to 50 ft and lifting the sand, besides mining from the riverbed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Forest Dept. bars tourists from walking to Doddabetta Peak
['A rise in the number of Indian gaurs in the Doddabetta area, has forced the Forest Department to ban tourists from walking a two-km stretch to the Doddabetta Peak, one of the major tourist attractions here.', 'So far, tourists could walk to the peak from the Forest Department check post on the main road. Now, they will have to either hire vehicles or use shuttle services offered by the department to get there.', 'Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris Division) K. Saravanakumar said the department, which manages the Doddabetta Eco-Development Committee, had taken the decision to ban visitors from walking to the peak owing to safety concerns. “Indian gaurs are spotted regularly along the stretch, and there is a concern that visitors could get injured, or worse, in a confrontation with a wild animal,” he said. The department was also taking action against picnickers and other visitors who ventured into the forests for taking photographs. However, the department’s decision to close the badly-damaged road from the check post to the peak to walkers has caused concern among residents, including those residing in the Mel Kodappamund and Gorishola areas. They fear this could result in gridlocks along the Ooty-Kotagiri Road during peak tourist season.', 'The forest department said it was aware of the concerns and was coming up with strategies to manage the traffic bound for the peak during the tourism season this summer.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Maha Sivarathri fest begins with flag hoisting
['Maha Sivarathri festival begins at Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'The 12-day Masi Maha Sivarathri festival began with flag-hoisting at Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'Hundreds of devotees witnessed the ceremony conducted amid chanting of mantras and rituals by temple priests led by chief priest Vijay Anand.', 'Joint Commissioner of the temple G.S. Mangayarkarasi and assistant divisional engineer K. Mayilvahanan were among those present at the ceremony.', 'Maha Sivarathri would be observed on March 4 — the eighth day — with a procession of Swamy and Ambal around the four streets of the temple in silver car.', 'Besides locals, sadhus and pilgrims from north India were expected to visit the temple on the night of March 4 and throughout the 12 days, the officials said.', 'The temple authorities and Rameswaram municipality had made arrangements for drinking water. Sanitary facilities were also in place.', 'The district police had made elaborate security arrangements and installed CCTV cameras at all strategic points to regulate the crowd during the festival.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sub-Collector shifted for ‘acting tough against illegal sand miners’
['Paramakudi Sub-Collector B. Vishnu Chandran, who was taking stern action against illegal sand mining in the revenue division, has been transferred and posted as Nagercoil Sub-Collector.', 'Administrative reasons are cited for his transfer a few days after he launched a crackdown on illegal sand mining at Kadugusandai in Kadaladi block and ‘seized’ five excavators used for illegal sand mining.', 'Though officials claimed that Mr. Vishnu Chandran was transferred in tune with the procedure to shift officials who had completed three years of service in a particular place in view of the coming elections, local sources said he was transferred for taking on the sand mining lobby as he hardly completed one and a half years as Paramakudi Sub-Collector.', 'His wife Asha Ajit, who was working as Sub-Collector in Devakottai in Sivaganga district, was also transferred to Tiruchendur as Sub-Collector.', 'R. Senthilvel Murugan, Deputy Tahsildar, Kadaladi, was also transferred as he often conducted surprise raids and stopped sand quarrying at Kadugusandai, the sources said. He was posted as Deputy Tahsildar, Elections, Thiruvadanai.', 'Official sources said a team of revenue officials, led by Mr. Chandran, seized five excavators and detained them at the site after removing ‘some tools’ and immobilising them, but the highly influential ‘miners’ ‘took away’ the machines. Village Administrative Officer K. Jayakodi lodged a complaint against the permit holder, but Sayalkudi police did not register an FIR.', 'The police said the FIR was not registered as the excavators were not in their possession and they could not be brought to the police station. On the other hand, the police ‘allowed’ the sand miners to move away the machines, the sources said. The police had also released two two-wheelers seized and kept in the police station, they claimed.', 'Meanwhile, hearing a public interest litigation, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court stayed quarrying at Kadugusandai.', 'The court also stayed quarrying at Poolankulam, passing interim orders on another petition.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Key establishments exempted
['Following the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court’s order to crack down on building plan violations, the Kodaikanal Municipality resorted to a lock-and-seal procedure. However, with the Master Plan for Kodaikanal yet to be revised, certain establishments were given relief till then.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and G. R. Swaminathan heard a batch of petitions that sought relief for an interim period. Considering the plea, the bench allowed educational institutions, residential buildings, government buildings, hospitals, banks, small shops like bakeries, grocery stores, small eateries and saloons to be exempted for now.', 'However, it instructed the municipality to go ahead with the lock-and-seal procedure with regard to lodges, cottages, hotels and resorts built in violation of the building plan. It further added that even religious establishments should not be spared if they were built in violation of the plan. Be it temple, mosque or church, those built in violations of the plan had to be locked and sealed, the court said.', 'The State had informed the court that the violators were identified, following the crackdown on them. The court, taking into account the submissions, wondered if Kodaikanal was burdened with people from all over pouring in to settle down in the town. Maybe, there should be a regulation on settlement in Kodaikanal, it said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gramalaya begins project to prevent open defecation
['Gramalaya, a city-based non-governmental organisation involved in water management and public sanitation, has begun a project to prevent open defecation and dumping of solid and liquid waste in the Cauvery river in Musiri town panchayat of Tiruchi district.', 'Supported by corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of Merrill Lynch Capital Ltd., Mumbai, Gramalaya has already helped 132 families of Nataraja Nagar in Ward 11 to build 100 smart toilets (bathroom attached toilets with twin leach pit). This has been accompanied by a hygiene awareness programme to make all the women and adolescent girls in the village switch over to reusable cloth sanitary napkins.', 'The NGO has been sanctioned ₹1.90 crore by Merrill Lynch Capital to extend the programme through the entire Tiruchi district covering 14 blocks. So far 9,604 packets of reusable cloth pads worth ₹30 lakh have been distributed to the women in Tiruchi district through its social marketing approach.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


700 scooters handed over to beneficiaries
['Food Minister R. Kamaraj and CollectorT. Anand with the beneficiaries of ‘Amma Scooter’ scheme at Tiruvarur Collectorate on Monday.', 'Seven hundred scooters were handed over to beneficiaries under the Amma Scooter Scheme here on Monday. Handing over the vehicles to the beneficiaries, Food Minister R. Kamaraj claimed that schemes such as this where subsidy is being given for scooters purchased by working women and others have been received well by the people.', 'With the distribution of 700 scooters today, the target – 1,825 scooters - fixed for the district under this scheme has been achieved. A sum of ₹1.75 crore would be released as subsidy to the beneficiaries.', 'In addition to this, improvised scooters for differently-abled persons numbering 72 and motor fitted sewing machines and hearing aid equipment, worth ₹23.12 lakh was also distributed on the occasion.', 'Earlier, the Minister distributed priceless bicycles to a few students at a function held at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Kudavasal.', 'Speaking on the occasion, he said that a total of 7,479 bicycles would be distributed to students studying in seven schools in Nannilam, Kudavasal and Valangaiman Unions at a cost of ₹91.79 lakh.', 'Collector T. Anand and other senior officials were present.', 'The Minister also declared open an exhibition highlighting the welfare schemes and the achievements of the government at the Tiruvarur bus stand.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Take to entrepreneurship, engineering graduates told
['Students ought to make the most of ‘Make in India’ programme and other opportunities provided by the Central and State Governments to transform into entrepreneurs, Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University P. Manisankar told graduating students of Anna University on Sunday.', 'Delivering the Graduation Day address of the University College of Engineering, BIT Campus, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pattukottai and Thirukuvalai, Prof. Manisankar urged students to develop qualities of persistence, commitment, initiative, efficiency, goal-setting, management ability, self-confidence, risk-taking ability and team work to succeed as entrepreneurs.', 'Students must become job-providers rather than seeking jobs, he emphasised.', 'Prof. Manisankar joined the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, Chennai, M. K. Surappa in presenting degrees to a total of 1,628 undergraduate and post-graduate students.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Early onset of heatwave mayresult in erratic monsoon this year’
['Intense cyclonic storms are on the cards, says JAMSTEC scientist Swadhin Behara.', 'The early onset of heatwave conditions this year may result in a delayed and erratic monsoon in India, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) scientist Swadhin Behara has said.', 'Referring to climate change, Mr. Behara attributed it to the rise in the ocean temperature.', 'Explaining about the connection between the ocean temperature and climate, Mr. Behara said warming of oceans would lead to more intense cyclonic storms of category 4 and 5, rather than a prolonged monsoon season.', 'Over the last five decades, he said, the oceans have absorbed more then 80% of the global heat, impacting the ice in the poles. “The Arctic region is already bearing the brunt. We must cut the emission of green house gases before the Antarctic comes under its impact,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elaborate arrangements made for Intermediate exams tomorrow
['Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned private junior colleges in the state against withholding hall tickets of students with regard to the Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled for February 27, on the pretext of unpaid fees.', 'Secretary of the Board A. Ashok has threatened the managements with serious action if they were found resorting to such tactics.', 'Students who have not got their hall tickets as yet may download the same from the Board’s website starting from 4 p.m. on Monday. An exam centre locator App was launched at the same time.', 'A total of 9,42,719 students are set to appear for the exams this year; 4,52,550 for first year and 4,90,169 for second year.', 'In the General category, 4,09,090 are from the first year, and 3,82,996 from second year. A total of 43,460 are attending the first year Vocational, and 35,780 the second year Vocational, in the regular category, while 68,375 are appearing privately for second year General, and 3,018 for Vocational.', 'Of the 1,277 examination centres, 40 are self centres, where students will be allowed to write the exam in their own college for want of logistical convenience, Mr. Ashok said at a press conference on Monday.', 'A total of 24,508 invigilators will be deployed for the exams. Two hundred sitting squads have been deployed at the problematic centres, while 50 flying squads comprising members from Education, Police and Revenue departments, will conduct surprise checks to prevent malpractice. Exam observers too will visit the centres for surprise checks.', 'Photocopy shops near the exam centres will be closed during exam hours, 9 a.m. to 12 noon. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the centres, and question papers should be opened only in the visibility range of the cameras. A district-level high power committee with district collector as chairman and Superintendent of Police and others as members have been constituted, apart from District Examination Committees, for smooth conduct of exams.', 'The centres will be guarded by the police, and Section 144 CrPC will be imposed around the location.', 'RTC authorities have been requested to reschedule their services to suit the exam hours, and Electricity department, for uninterrupted power supply. Drinking water and medical facilities have been provided at the centres.', 'Candidates have been instructed to enter the examination hall by 8.45 a.m., and fill in the OMR details by 9 a.m. Fifteen minutes grace time will be permitted, and no candidate will be allowed inside after 9 a.m., nor will be allowed to go out before 12 noon, Mr. Ashok cautioned.', 'Cell phones, electronic gadgets, pagers, calculators, or any kind of printed/written material will not be allowed inside the hall.', 'Criminal cases will be booked against candidates resorting to copying, malpractice, or impersonation, and will be debarred, Mr. Ashok warned. A control room will function with the numbers 040-24601010 and 24732369 where complaints can be made if any.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Migrant labourers targeted in Kodagu
['Migrant labourers in Kodagu, who have emerged as the mainstay of the workforce in coffee plantations across the district, have become the target of ire of a section of locals, with the Kodagu Growers’ Federation alleging that two or three instances of assault against them have taken place in the past few days.', 'The recent arrest of two workers from West Bengal in connection with the rape and murder of a pre-university student in a coffee estate in Kodagu has given an excuse to the locals, who have been facing the heat of unemployment, to train their guns on migrant workers, who are mostly from the Northeast.', 'Sundar Raj, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Madikeri, said demonstrations were held by local organisations taking up the cause of the rape and murder victim in Siddapura, but no case of assault against migrant workers was reported so far. The demonstrators have demanded that the workers be sent back to their native places.', 'However, the Kodagu Growers’ Federation and the Kodagu Planters’ Federation have alleged that two or three instances of assault on migrant labourers from Assam have taken place in south Kodagu even though formal police complaints have not been lodged.', 'The Kodagu Loaders’ Association president Bharat, who also heads the Gram Panchayat Workers’ Association of Kodagu, traced the origin of the discontent among locals to estate owners preference for migrant labourers after tribals, who had for ages worked as bonded labourers, began demanding fair wages.', 'Plantation owners are employing migrant labourers for their own convenience, but local workers, contractors and transporters have come together to exploit the rape case to their advantage, Mr. Bharat said. He added that certain forces were also trying to give a communal twist to the issue by targeting minority community workers from Assam.', 'The targeting of migrant labourers by locals comes in the backdrop of an exercise taken up by the police to collect details of all migrant labourers employed by estate owners. The police exercise, which began after a worker from Assam murdered his wife, had been intensified after the rape and murder case.', 'The Kodagu growers’ and planters’ federations have condemned the rape and murder while demanding punishment of the culprits. They have also come down on locals for targeting the entire migrant workforce using the crime as an excuse.', 'A representative of the growers’ federation said they preferred migrant labourers as they were willing to work till late in the day and put in overtime for incentives. But local labourers, who are even ferried from nearby places such as Periyapatna and parts of Hassan and Mysuru, leave estates early.', 'The identity of the PU student who was raped and killed in a coffee estate in Siddapura police limits earlier this month has been misused by various organisations in Kodagu.', 'Madikeri Deputy Superintendent of Police Sundar Raj said a section of local workers have formed a struggle committee in the name of the victim. Various organisations are liberally using her name in press statements, which then appear in the local media.', 'Disclosing the name of a rape victim, even after her death, is barred under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Vaiko appears before Egmore court
['MDMK general secretary Vaiko appeared before a Metropolitan Magistrate court on Monday in a case of staging a dharna in front of the Chintadripet police station when Nakeeran Gopal was arrested.', 'Mr. Vaiko, on his appearance before the magistrate, was served copy of charge sheet. The magistrate Rosalin Durai adjourned the case for further proceeding to next month.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


SCPCR cannot order payment of compensation: Karnataka HC
['The High Court of Karnataka has said that the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has no authority and jurisdiction to pass an order for payment of compensation for a victim child or members of victim’s family but it can only recommend to the government or the authority concerned for grant of relief.', 'Justice H.T. Narendra Prasad passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Zainabhiya Education Society in Tumakuru district. The society had questioned the direction issued by the commission on September 17, 2014, to pay ₹1 lakh interim compensation to a minor student, who in July 2014 had suffered eye injuries accidentally due to an act of another student.', 'The institute pointed out that it had provided medical assistance to the injured child both locally and at Minto Eye Hospital, Bengaluru, besides paying ₹70,000 to victim’s father. The commission had initiated proceedings against the petitioner society based on a newspaper report published nearly two months after the incident.', 'The court also noticed that the commission had initiated proceedings under Section 14(1)(a) of the Commissions for the Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, and issued notice to the society on September 17, 2014, directing the society’s secretary to appear before the Commission on September 30, 2014. Following this, the secretary appeared but the commission, without conducting any enquiry as per Section 14, had on September 17, 2014, directed the society to pay ₹1 lakh as compensation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Summons issued to 31 advocates in 2009 case
['The Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Egmore has issued summons to 31 advocates, asking them to appear before it on February 28 in a case registered by the CBI in connection with the clash between police and advocates on the Madras High Court premises on February 19, 2009.', 'The CBI investigated the case and filed charge sheets naming 32 advocates, about 10 police personnel and one law college student under various provisions of the IPC and Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act, 1992.', 'Departmental action was recommended against 22 police personnel. Several advocates, police personnel, journalists and a High Court Judge Arumuga Perumal Adityan were injured in the clash. A police station and scores of vehicles were damaged in the fire and stone pelting.', 'The charges against the police and advocates include offences of criminal conspiracy, rioting, unlawful assembly, causing simple/grievous hurt, causing simple/grievous hurt to deter the public servant from discharge of his duty, mischief by fire, criminal trespass in order to commit offence and causing damage to public/private properties, the sources added.', 'Meanwhile, Mahendran, an advocate filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court challenging the orders of ACMM Court.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Samples sent for carbon dating: ASI
['The excavated site at Adichanallur in Srivaikuntam taluk in Tuticorin district.', 'The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Monday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that samples excavated from the Adichanallur site in Thoothukudi have been sent for carbon dating to laboratories in the U.S. and New Delhi and the results would be available in a month’s time.', 'Following the direction of the High Court Bench, the samples excavated from the site in Thoothukudi in 2004 were sent to determine their age. B. Sathyabama, former Regional Director, ASI (South), now with the Delhi Circle, informed the court that the compilation of the report on the excavations was under way.', 'Taking into account the submissions made in the case, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar directed the ASI to also take into account the report compiled by T. Satyamurthy, former Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, who led the excavation in 2004, so that a comprehensive report on the excavations could be compiled. Both B. Sathyabama and T. Satyamurthy were before the court. Following the submissions, it dispensed with their appearance.', 'The court was also informed of the vacancies to key positions in the ASI and the Tamil Nadu Department of Archaeology. After it was informed that up to 25 out of the 35 posts were lying vacant in the State Department, the court sought a detailed report from the department on the number of vacancies in key posts.', 'As the carbon dating test results would be available only after a month, the hearing on the results was adjourned to April 2.', 'However, as the court wanted to know the vacancies to the key posts on an earlier date, the report was sought by March 11, until when the case was adjourned.', 'The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by S. Kamaraj of Thoothukudi.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Solar energy has just become more expensive for many sections
['The number of organisations and individuals relying on the sunshine to minimise their monthly power bills is increasing by the day, but phase-II of Grid-Connected Rooftop Solar (RTS) programme approved by the Centre might take the smiles off their faces.', 'It has withdrawn the Central Financial Assistance (CFA) for categories such as institutional, educational, social, government, commercial and industrial among others.', 'The CFA for the residential sector has also been restructured with availability of 40% financial support from the Centre for rooftop systems up to 3 kw capacity and 20% for a project with a capacity beyond 3 kw and up to 10 kw. However, the only relieving factor is that the new policy comes into effect from April 1, giving a month’s time for those aspiring to buy a subsidised rooftop solar panel project.', 'Nearly 14 colleges in Krishna district have opted for rooftop solar projects to save on their power bills. They include V.R. Siddhartha Engineering College, P.V.P. Siddhartha Institute of Technology, NRI College, Usha Rama College, Siddhartha Medical College, Lakkireddy Balreddy Engineering College, Loyola College, Stella College, Happy Valley Institute and Viswa Bharathi.', 'The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved the Phase II programme that envisages achieving cumulative capacity of 40,000 MW from rooftop solar projects by 2022. The programme will be implemented with Central financial support of ₹11.814 crore.', 'This phase lays focus on increased involvement of DISCOMs.', 'Performance-based incentives will be provided to them based on RTS capacity achieved in a financial year above the base capacity, i.e. cumulative capacity achieved at the end of the previous financial year.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Policemen opting out of health insurance plan
['Last week, a Special Sub-Inspector of Police wrote to the Director-General of Police, seeking to opt out of the New Health Insurance Scheme, 2016, and requested that the deduction of ₹180 from his salary towards monthly premium be stopped with immediate effect.', 'S. Allaudeen, working as an SSI in Chennai, went though an ordeal of having to shell out ₹1.09 lakh to a private hospital for his son’s treatment despite having a cashless health insurance cover for self and family members. Since he was not given the health insurance card, the hospital refused to provide treatment under the scheme.', 'He got no assistance from the Tamil Nadu Police Benefit Fund, Mr. Allaudeen said. He did not even get income tax relief for the premium paid towards the cost of health insurance. A Head Constable wrote to the Police Commissioner on Monday requesting that his health cover be terminated since it was of no use. On two occasions when he and his wife were admitted to hospitals, the insurance company refused to pay, saying the ailments were not covered under the policy. According to police sources, there have been dozens of such cases where police personnel or their family members who got admitted to network hospitals for various ailments were not provided cashless facility as promised in the scheme.', 'The State government in June 2016 passed an order announcing health care assistance to the employees of Government Departments, State Public Sector Undertakings, Statutory Boards, Local Bodies, State Government Universities and their eligible family members.', 'The New Health Insurance Scheme, 2016, was given to the United India Insurance Company Limited for implementation and enrolment was made compulsory for lakhs of employees and their eligible family members. They were told that they would get a health cover of up to ₹4 lakh in a block of four years commencing from July 1, 2016 and the assistance would be increased to ₹7 lakh for treatment of cancer, major heart problem requiring surgery etc.', 'The officer said that no data was available on the list of police personnel and their family members who got the benefit of the health insurance scheme.', 'In Madurai, the Commissioner of Police introduced a model where information on hospitalisation of employee or his/her family is reported on a daily basis. An official in the rank of Inspector of Police is deputed to the hospital to liaise with the insurance company.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


High-profile hopefuls begin campaign in Manipur
['Though the Lok Sabha election schedule is yet to be announced and party tickets yet to be allotted, some high-profile candidates have already launched their campaign in Manipur.', 'Former Chief Minister Radhabinod Koijam is one of the heavyweights who is seeking a BJP ticket for the Inner Manipur Lok Sabha constituency. His election posters have come up in all the valley districts. However, these posters do not state which party he will represent in the polls.', 'Another candidate, Oinam Nabakishore Singh, a former Chief Secretary, is also appealing to the voters of this constituency to elect him in front-page newspaper advertisements.', 'The State executive council of the CPI on Monday approved the candidature of M. Nara Singh, a former Minister. L. Sotin Kumar, the State secretary of the CPI, said there is a need to safeguard the people of the State since the BJP leaders are keen on including the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, in the party’s poll manifesto.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Manipur fake encounters: kin allege bribe for settlement
['Members of the Campaign For Peace and Democracy (Manipur) protesting in New Delhi against ‘State-sponsored atrocities in Manipur’.', 'A court in Thoubal district of Manipur has disposed of a case of alleged extrajudicial killing of a man by a police team in 2011, thanks to the delay in sanction of prosecution from the State government.', 'The family of the victim on Monday alleged that it was fighting the case despite coercions, including a lump sum being offered as “bribe” to withdraw the case.', 'Tampha, the wife of Angousana Athokpam of Bishnupur district who was arrested on February 27, 2011, by a Thoubal district police team and allegedly killed in a fake encounter, told reporters in Imphal that some stranger had come to her home last month and offered her “₹7 lakh for an out-of-court settlement”.', 'Tanoubi, Athokpam’s daughter, said the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thoubal, had disposed of her father’s case on Saturday saying it cannot proceed further as the Manipur government has not given the prosecution sanction. “Such prosecution sanctions had already been given in the Imphal East and Imphal West districts,” said Ms. Tanoubi.', 'She said her father’s “killing” was one of the 39 cases registered on the specific orders of the Supreme Court. The accused in nine such cases have already been chargesheeted.', 'The SC is looking into 1,528 alleged fake encounter cases in Manipur filed by Extrajudicial Execution Victims Families Association Manipur, a group seeking speedy trial in these cases.', 'There has been no explanation from the BJP-led State government as to why no prosecution sanction was issued in Athokpam’s case.', 'The EEVFAM activists are not happy with the court order in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


MDM scheme food found to be unsafe in 2 Odisha districts
['The State food analyst has found food served as part of the Mid Day Meal programme “unsafe and substandard” in Kendrapara and Kandhamal districts.', 'Based on the finding, the Odisha State Food Commission has directed the Secretary of Department of School and Mass Education and Collectors of the two districts to take action.', 'According to the report, samples of loose dals sent from Kandhamal loose boiled rice collected from Kendrapara were deemed unsafe. Salt samples in Kendrapara were also substandard.', 'The State food testing laboratory has found synthetic colour in samples of split arhar dal, which is unsafe under Section 3(1)(zz) of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


3.7 crore voters on final  rolls in State
['Andhra Pradesh has 3,69,33,091 voters as per the final electoral rolls dated January 11, including 1,83,24,588 men, 1,86,04,742 women and 3,761 transgenders, according to an official release.', 'East Godavari (E.G.) has the highest number of voters at 40,13,770 comprising 19,94,639 men, 20,18,747 women and 384 transgenders.', 'Vizianagaram district has the lowest of 17,33,667 including 8,58,327 men, 8,75,222 women and 118 transgenders.', 'Chandragiri constituency in Chittoor district has the highest number of voters at 2,70,495 and Narsapuram in West Godavari the lowest 1,59,144.', 'E.G. district has the highest number of constituencies at 19 and Vizianagaram the lowest at nine.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Residents fume as they choke on burning trash
['The Municipal Corporation of Karimnagar (MCK) has banned burning of dry leaves and garbage in residential areas and along the roads, but the practice continues unabated in the town, posing risk to residents’ health.', 'Given that it is defoliation season, heaps of dry leaves are found under the trees. The fallen leaves and sundry litter are set afire after the roads are swept, generating pollution and causing morning walkers, schoolchildren and passersby to choke.', 'Besides, the smoke billowing from the burning of garbage has been affecting the visibility of motorists and leading to minor accidents, complain residents.', 'The sweepers say they are forced to burn the leaves and litter together on the roads as there is “no question of garbage collection rickshaws coming to the spot and picking up the trash”. “If we do not burn the leaves, they would again scatter on the road and it will appear as if we didn’t do our job. The jawans (supervisors), who come for inspection, will abuse us for not cleaning the road,” a sweeper argues.', 'Nagamohan, a resident, says the pollution caused by burning of leaves is paving the way for major health problems. “People with asthma and other respiratory problems are the worst sufferers,” he adds.', 'ENT surgeon Dr. Ch. Ramana Chary says inhalation of any kind of smoke, be it burning of leaves, garbage, mosquito coils or camp fires, is injurious to health. “Constant exposure to smoke may lead to asthma and other health problems,” he warns.', 'Mayor S. Ravinder Singh says strict instructions have been issued against burning of leaves and garbage in the open and any employee found violating it would be suspended.', 'Similarly, any resident found guilty of that would also have to pay a fine of ₹1,000 and a case would be registered against the offender, he informs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Eye on Olympics, martial arts champ seeks sponsor
['For over two decades, Jameel Khan Patan has been waging a grim battle against all odds even while quietly collecting medals on the international stage; 18 gold, 12 silver and 18 bronze, to be precise. That’s not all. The martial arts champion also has to his credit four gold, two silver and six bronze medals in World Cups since 2016.', 'Yet, this spirited Hyderabadi continues to run from pillar to post in search of financial support to sustain his passion. “With the specific goal of making it to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in which karate is being introduced, I am still pursuing my love for martial arts,” he says.', 'For someone who earns a modest salary by training some schoolchildren in and around Toli Chowki, all that he looks for is some kind of support that would help him realise his goal of making it to the Olympics. “Compared to the support I got in the US with special exemptions to train and compete, the response back in my hometown has been disappointing,” says Jameel.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elderly woman chased by monkeys, dies
['In a shocking incident, an elderly woman fell down and died after she was attacked by monkeys at Pandilla village in Husnabad mandal on Monday.', 'According to ACP Mahender, the woman V. Bhadravva (70) came to the local market on some work and was attacked by more than ten monkeys. She was scared and ran, and in the process fell down and sustained injuries. She died on the way to hospital. Village sarpanch K. Ramesh said that in the past also monkeys attacked people and the authorities should do something about the menace.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Show of strength by farmers
['Farmers who have been waging struggle demanding establishment of a turmeric board besides payment of minimum support price of ₹ 15,000 per quintal for turmeric and ₹3,500 for red jowar staged a massive dharna and rasta roko at Mamdipally Chowrasta, here on Monday.', 'The rasta roko and ‘maha dharna’ was preceded by an impressive rally by farmers who arrived from various villages in the revenue division.', 'They wanted the Government to purchase the crop directly from farmers at MSPs as they were getting prices which are below their investment costs. They also sought implementation of the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission to ensure profitable price.', 'The farmers’ leaders who addressed the gathering said that they were hardly getting ₹ 6,000 per quintal of turmeric and ₹2,500 for red jowar. On the other hand, they were incurring investment costs of ₹1.50 lakh per acre for turmeric and ₹30,000 per acre for red jowar.', 'Police made elaborate bandobust deploying a large contingent of forces to prevent any untoward incident due to the farmers’ agitation. They took all necessary measures for the smooth flow of vehicular traffic in the town and also on National Highway-44. However, reports reaching here said that following the farmers’ rasta roko at Metpally and Korutla in Jagityal district traffic movement was badly affected.', 'Meanwhile, farmers’ leaders spoke of filing mass nominations in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections to exert pressure on the government if their problems were not solved by that time.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Grand start to Peddagattu Jatara
['Regarded as the most-visited temple Jatara after the one in Medaram in Jayashankar district of the State, the biennial Peddagattu Jatara of Lord Shiva’s incarnate - Lingamanthula Swamy, started off with the procession of ‘Devarapette’ on the Magha Purnima (full moon) night here on Sunday.', 'The divine box ‘Devarapette’ that houses the Yadava deities Lingamanthula swamy, goddess Chowdamma and others, moved from the custodians of the Kesaram village this time.', 'Sounding the bugle and amid drum beats, village elders, along with Minister for Education G. Jagadish Reddy and Rajya Sabha MP B. Lingaiah Yadav, who shouldered the box, moved it atop the hill.', 'Nearly 30,000 devotees from in and around Suryapet fulfilled their vows on Sunday and women too completed the ‘basket pradakshina’ on the first day. According to belief, the three pradakshinas with baskets decorated with turmeric, kumkum and flowers, and filled with rice, milk, ghee, coconut, lemon and an empty earthen pot, is for the Lord, seeking protection of one’s livestock.', 'According to him, a devotee footfall of nearly 20 lakh, from the Telugu and southern States, neighbouring Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, is expected this year. And with ₹1.7 crore allotted by the State government, sufficient amenities have been built. The five-day event, besides prayers for the deities, showcases the culture, and through games, folk art, food, rare vocations and numerous stalls selling souvenirs, reminds the daily lives of the country side.', 'District Collector D. Amoy Kumar and Superintendent of Police R. Venkateswarlu said elaborate arrangements concerning devotee safety and experience are in place. “Preparations have been on for the past one month. As many as 1,200 policemen and an additional 46 CCTVs monitored through a command control centre are keeping vigil of the entire place,” they said.', 'Local legislator Mr. Jagadish Reddy was enthusiastic about the jatara, beating the drum along with colleagues Kodad MLA Bollam Mallaiah Yadav and MP Lingaiah Yadav.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Bail for alleged Maoist sympathiser in Yerwada jail since 2015
['The Bombay High Court on Monday granted bail to Konnath Muralidharan, 66, an alleged sympathiser of Communist Party of India (Maoist), who has been in Yerwada jail since May 2015 after the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested him for possessing ‘objectionable material’. His bail has been previously rejected by the Pune court in September 2016.', 'On May 8, 2015, Mr. Muralidharan was arrested at 6 a.m. after the ATS got information that he, along with an aide Chirag Palli, were operating from their hideout at Talegaon in Pune. ATS recovered hand written notes along with printed literature that talked about Operation Green Hunt, central military commission and other material related to CPI (Maoists).', 'According to the FIR, Mr. Muralidharan introduced himself as Thomas Joseph and was holding names such as Sunny alias Rajendra Goppi Vijayan alias Raghavan alias Ajith Kannampillai alias Kannakaran. His aide Mr. Palli introduced himself as James Mathew.', 'Statements of some witnesses were recorded and the ATS had seized laptops, CPUs, printers, three pen drives, 10 mobile handsets, five sim cards, two dongles and books in Malayalam from them.', 'The ATS also recovered a fake PAN card in the name of Thomas Joseph with Mr. Muralidharan’s photo, while Mr. Palli had a fake Aadhaar card in his name.', 'Mr. Muralidharan was charged with Section 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), Section 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), Section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), Section 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 10 (penalty for being member of an unlawful association, etc), Section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities), Section 20 (punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation), Section 38 (offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation), and Section 39 (offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).', 'The ATS filed a chargesheet on October 14, 2015, before a sessions court in Pune. On September 9, 2016, Mr. Muralidharan who suffered heart ailments prior to his arrest, and suffered a mild heart attack while he was lodged in prison, moved a bail application which was rejected by the Pune court.', 'The present bail application, filed in HC through his advocates Sudeep Pasbola and Susan Abraham, states that he has been falsely implicated, and that there is no evidence to prosecute him under UAPA.', 'Justice Nitin Sambre granted bail to Mr. Murlidharan on ₹1 lakh surety and ordered him to report to Pune police station twice a month.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


State dubs journalist an extortionist
['The State on Monday dubbed New Delhi-based journalist Mathew Samuel, who released a video recently alleging Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s involvement in the 2017 Kodanad murder-cum-heist, as a blackmailer known for making videos to extort money from influential people.', 'State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan made the submission before Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan, who reserved his judgment on a petition filed by K. V. Sayan, 37, and Manoj alias Vayalar Manoj, 42, against cancellation of bail granted to them in the murder case after they gave interviews to the journalist.', 'Filing a detailed counter-affidavit justifying the cancellation by a sessions court in Nilgiris district, the SPP said the two accused were guilty of perjury since they had obtained bail in 2017 by claiming to be innocents but had gone on record in the video to allege that the crime took place at the behest of the Chief Minister.', 'Such an allegation levelled by them after about 22 months since the crime took place and especially when the case was pending at the stage of framing of charges, against the accused, amounted to abuse of liberty granted to them by the trial court besides being a clear interference with the administration of justice, he added.', 'A parallel trial by media influences the witnesses as well as public opinion. Since the trial court judges were also humans, there was also a possibility of them being unconsciously influenced if such videos with “wild” allegations were allowed to be shot and circulated in the public domain, the prosecution claimed.', 'Further, stating that both Sayan and Manoj had admitted that they had never met the Chief Minister and their only claim now was that the co-accused Kanagaraj (since dead) had told them about the involvement of Mr. Palaniswami, the SPP said, such claim was purely hearsay and hence not admissible in evidence before a court of law.', 'The prosecution also accused the present petitioners of having indulged in forum shopping by filing a criminal original petition in the High Court against the cancellation of their bail though, in normal course, they should have filed only a revision petition which would have got listed before Justice P. Velmurugan as per the current portfolio.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Congress, JD(S) to make a list of ‘winnable candidates’
['JD(S) and Congress leaders have decided to prepare a list of ‘winnable candidates’ to claim a number of constituencies in the State.', 'Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara and KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao on Monday held talks with Minister for Public Works H.D. Revanna and JD(S) president H. Vishwanath on various issues to arrive at the number of constituencies where ruling parties can strike an alliance to fight against the BJP.', 'Sources said that JD(S) has been claiming constituencies like Chickballapur, Hassan, Mandya, Tumakuru, Raichur, Shivamogga, and Mysuru, where it has a substantial vote bank and can defeat BJP in alliance with the Congress. However, leaders were not able to arrive at a consensus on the number of constituencies or candidates to be fielded in 28 Lok Sabha segments.', 'Mr. Gundu Rao said both parties decided to make a list of candidates for all 28 constituencies that would be placed before the soon to be held co-ordination committee meet headed by former CM Siddaramaiah. The committee comprised of CM H.D. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Parameswara and K.C. Venugopal, AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka. The final list would be sent to the high command for approval.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Invite to Brahma Kumaris draws criticism
['The government’s decision to invite a member of the Prajapita Brahmakumari to conduct a talk inside the legislative building has come under criticism.', 'Brahma Kumari Shivani, member of the Brahmakumaris World Spiritual University, is scheduled to deliver a ‘motivational speech’ at the Central Hall on Tuesday. The Bramha Kumaris claim to be a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation.', 'Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said it is a “motivational speech” and should be seen in a positive manner.', 'However, Nationalist Congress Party leader and former deputy chief minister Chhagan Bhujbal questioned it’s purpose. “If it is a religious function, then you will have to allow other religions to hold similar functions,” he said.', 'Calling the legislature building a ‘temple of democracy,’ All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLA Imtiaz Jaleel said it should not be used for religious speeches.', 'While announcing his decision to not attend the program, Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Azmi said the move is “unconstitutional and unacceptable”.', 'In 2016, two Jain monks addressed lawmakers inside the Assembly building in Harayana and Madhya Pradesh. The latter was then ruled by the BJP.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Plea for 100% digitisation of records in police dept. dismissed
['The Madras High Court has dismissed as withdrawn a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by an Inspector of Police seeking a direction to the Chief Secretary to introduce 100% digitisation of records in the Police department in order to increase its efficiency and provide better services to people.', 'Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu dismissed the case filed by M.A. Ranjith of Coimbatore, who claimed to be serving in the Anti-Child Trafficking Unit in Chennai.', 'In his affidavit, the petitioner said the department continued to do a lot of paper work on its administrative side and it was time to discourage the practice.', 'Referring to the General Diary (GD) maintained in every police station to keep track of the daily activities of police officials, he said it was mandatory to fill up the diary on an hourly basis to ensure effective monitoring. However, in practice, it gets filled up only at the end of the day as per the wishes of the higher officials concerned, he claimed.', 'If entries in general diary were computerised and a central monitoring system put in place, such anomalies could be avoided, the petitioner said.', 'Similarly, a biometric attendance system should be introduced in every police station for the accused out on bail in criminal cases to mark their attendance before investigating officers as per court orders, he insisted.', 'The existing practice of obtaining their signatures in registers led to flouting of court orders by influential accused who affixed the signatures cumulatively on a particular day without appearing before the investigating officer every day, the petitioner said, stressing that the biometric attendance should be monitored on a real time basis.', 'Further, allotment of work to every police officer should be computerised to ensure transparency and check misuse of the police force by higher officials.', 'Mr. Ranjith also insisted upon computerising other administrative issues as fixing the duty timings and granting leave to the police personnel to avoid complaints against the top brass.', 'He argued that by digitising the department, many unwanted dirt can be cleaned and a transparent department will be born. The petitioner said he was prepared to give documentary evidence to substantiate his charge.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Vakapalli trial resumes
['The second phase trial of the ongoing Vakapalli gang-rape case began here at the Special Court for SC, ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act Cases, on Monday.', 'The first phase was held from February 5 to 12, but during the schedule the hearing for February 11 and 12, had to be adjourned. The second schedule is from February 25 to March 1.', 'On Monday, two prosecution witnesses Korra Domanaiah, a village elder of Vakapalli, and the then BSP MLA Lakke Raja Rao were deposed. While Mr. Domanaiah was cross-examined by the defence lawyer, Mr. Raja Rao’s cross-examination will take place on Tuesday.', 'During the schedule from February 5 to 12, eight of nine surviving victims were deposed and also cross-examined.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Opposition boycotts Governor’s address to protest his RSS ties
['What’s with the frown?: Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao is escorted out by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis after his joint address to both Houses of the legislature at the start of the Budget session in Mumbai on Monday.', 'In a stormy start to the Budget session, Opposition parties on Monday boycotted Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao’s joint address to both Houses of the legislature as a mark protest over his recent remarks praising and expressing pride over his association with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).', 'Mr. Rao had, earlier this month, termed RSS as one of the most secular and inclusive organisations and expressed pride to be part of the ‘Sanghatan’ and being part of the RSS. Expressing displeasure over the remarks, Opposition members stayed away from his address.', 'In his address, Mr. Rao emphasised on the State government’s efforts to make Maharashtra a trillion dollar economy. “In order to achieve $1 trillion economy by 2025, my Government is preparing a new Industrial Policy with the objective of creating 60 lakh new employments and attracting an investment to the tune of ₹10 lakh crore,” he said.', 'Mr. Rao claimed that due to several industry-friendly policies over the last four years and — events like Make in India Week and Magnetic Maharashtra Convergence Summit 2018 — the State has attracted ₹3.36 lakh crore Foreign Direct Investment. “Maharashtra continues to be the leading State in attracting FDI in India,” the Governor said.', 'Recounting the measures taken by the State government for the welfare of farmers, Mr. Rao said that the government is working on schemes to achieve the objective of doubling the farmers’ income.', 'The Governor also announced that land acquisition for the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi highway has been completed in a year and construction has begun. “This is the single largest project costing ₹55,335 crore that aims to connect the entire State from west to east,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Oceans have direct role in climate change’
['Flag Officer Commanding in Chief of Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Karambir Singh speaking at the inaugural session in Visakhapatnam on Monday.', 'About 71% of of the earth’s surface is covered with water and in that cover oceans hold about 96.5% of the total water cover and keeping that in mind, the health of the oceans plays a vital role in the overall impact on climate.', 'This was the general observation by the experts at the inaugural session of the three-day second World Ocean Science Congress (WOCS) that began here at Andhra University on Monday.', 'All the experts were of the opinion that it was time for all stakeholders to come together to a common consensus to stop the degradation of the oceans and work towards a better future, as oceans have a direct role in climate change.', 'Union Minister Suresh Prabhu addressed the gathering through video conference.', 'Speaking on the occasion at the inaugural session, Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Shipyard Limited Rear Admiral L.V. Sarat Babu said ship building and shipping is one among the stakeholders and has an important role to play.', 'According to him, discharge of ballast water from ships is a major issue, as discharging of untreated water leads to transfer of invasive microorganisms from one region to another.', 'According to him, capping on sulphur emission by ships is another area that needs to be looked into. “The present norm is 3.5% and IMO has already passed a resolution that it should be reduced to 0.5% by October this year. About 70,000 transoceanic ships will have to change to new low-emission fuel or install scrubbers. Shipyards also have think of new methods of discharging their waste,” he said.', 'Flag-officer-Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command, Vice- Admiral Karambir Singh, in his address, pointed out that India has a rich maritime history and the focus should now be on modernising the fishing fleet, modern technology to explore seabed resources, enhance the efficiency of ports, new and green technology for seabed mining and bring out a common agenda for national maritime conservation.', 'Earlier, Secretary General WOCS Dr. S. Prasanna Kumar welcomed the delegates.', 'Prof. S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna, secretary, organising committee, said that 500 delegates, including 20 experts from foreign countries, and over 300 scientists and researchers and 300 students are attending the three-day meet. According to him, 107 scientific papers and 160 papers by students, including 30 concept papers, will be presented.', 'Chairman WOCS Dr. VN Sanjeevan, Vice-Chancellor of AU Prof. G. Nageswara Rao, Director Vigyan Prasar Dr. Nakul Parashar, National Organising Secretary of Vijnana Bharathi Jayant Sahasrabuddhe and State president of Vijnana Bharathi Prof. P.S. Avadhani spoke.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Naidu gives an earful to Cabinet colleagues
['As the political climate is hotting up with the fast-approaching general elections, TDP national president and Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu on Monday expressed displeasure over ‘lackadaisical attitude’ of his Cabinet colleagues to the political developments.', 'Mr. Naidu, without mincing words, pointed out that the Ministers were ‘indifferent’ to the allegations being levelled by the Opposition parties. “Except me, nobody is reacting to the allegations and criticism. The Ministers are miserably failing in countering the arguments and theories,” he said.', 'The Chief Minister’s comments came in the wake of ‘poor response’ from the Ministers to Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao (KTR)’s remarks that the YSRCP would come to power in Andhra Pradesh and its president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would become next Chief Minister.', 'TDP response’, Mr. Naidu cautioned his colleagues that there was an impending danger that the people would believe what the Opposition parties were speaking was true.', 'The functioning of the Ministers was under scrutiny. “Why did the Ministers fail to respond to KTR’s criticism?” he asked rather angrily.', 'The TDP supremo said a pre-poll alliance at the national level was being formed to avoid technical glitches post elections. A meeting of the non-BJP parties was scheduled on February 28, he said.', 'Mr. Naidu, however, reiterated that the TDP would not strike an alliance with the Congress in the State.', 'It would also not contest the MLC elections this time and the party leaders should not interfere in them, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Maharashtra tables over ₹4,200 crore in supplementary demands
['Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on Monday tabled supplementary demands worth ₹4,284.65 crore in the Assembly. Of this, ₹3,146.43 crore is the demand for additional expenditure till the next session while the remaining amount pertains to expenses already incurred by the government.', 'A supplementary demand is an additional grant to meet government expenditure, outside the annual budget.', 'The government will be presenting its interim budget on Wednesday. With this, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led State government has presented supplementary demands worth ₹1,71, 961 crore since December 2014.', 'According to Mr. Mungantiwar, the supplementary demand figure jumped because of the State’ decision to allot ₹ 2,000 crore from its contingency fund to be spent for farmers suffering from natural calamities such as drought. The government has allocated an extra ₹10.82 crore as financial assistance to the heirs of farmers who have committed suicides in the current financial year.', 'It has also provided ₹1,000 crore for the expenditure incurred on concessions given in the electricity tariff for agricultural pump and power loom consumers in the State, while ₹482.26 crore has been allocated to comply with the Bombay High Court order to issue pension to freedom fighters who were denied it on technical grounds. The State government also made a ₹305-crore allocation for milk procurement.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Toll in  ‘industrial spirit’ tragedy rises to seven
['Shell-shocked: Relatives of the victims wailing outside the KGH mortuary in Visakhapatnam.', 'The toll in the suspected industrial spirit consumption tragedy in Visakhapatnam rose to seven with four more people including three women succumbing to it while undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital early on Monday.', 'Three persons including a woman died and 13 people were hospitalised after they consumed the spirit found in a garbage dump presuming it to be locally brewed arrack at the Uppara Colony (ST Colony) and Swatantra Nagar of Pedagantyada Mandal under the Gajuwaka police station limits on Sunday.', 'The deceased were identified as Pindri Appalamma (70), Asanala Kondayya (60), Vadapalli Appanna alias Appadu (65), Asanala Chinna Rao (58), Asanala Ramanamma (59), Vadapalli Anakamma (65) and Asanala Ravanamma, said DCP (South Zone) Adnan Nayeem Asmi.', 'They were being given special care at the nephrology ward with haemodialysis and other supportive care. Their condition was being monitored round-the-clock, said superintendent of the KGH Dr G. Arjuna.', 'He told the media that they had received a chemical analysis report from the Regional Chemical Laboratory of Prohibition and Excise Department which said the liquid was methyl alcohol (Methanol).', 'Dr. Arjuna said methanol was a type of alcohol but not meant for human consumption and was highly toxic. The police registered a case of suspicious deaths (under Section 174 of CrPC).', 'Mild tension prevailed at the mortuary in the KGH as relatives and the Left parties had staged dharna demanding compensation. They met Collector K. Bhaskar seeking compensation of ₹20 lakh for the family members of each victim.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Take steps to irrigate lands in Agency areas’
['Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed officials to prepare an action plan for effective and optimum utilisation of minor irrigation water resources for agriculture in ITDA Agency areas and in areas where STs are in majority.', 'Chief Minister held a review meeting on utilization of minor irrigation resources in ST areas here on Monday. Minor irrigation water resources like ponds, canals may be used for supply of water for cultivation in Agency areas and areas of ST habitations where water from major irrigation projects are used for cultivation. The land in these areas is uneven with hills and valleys and water may be supplied through pipeline for cultivation, he added.', 'Podu lands issue will be resolved shortly and will get clarity on how much cultivable land is present in these areas, the Chief Minister said.', 'Chief Secretary SK Joshi, Principal Secretary to CM S. Narsing Rao, Irrigation Engineers-in-Chief Muralidhar and Vijay Prakash, MLAs Podem Veeraiah, Rega Kantha Rao, Athram Saku, Sunke Ravi Shankar, Durgam Chinnaiah, Chanti Kranthi Kiran, Bandla Krishna Mohan Reddy and others participated.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


HAL did not get NOC for aero show: Fire services
['A file photo of burnt cars at the Air Force Station, Yelahanka.', 'As the curtains came down on Aero India 2019 on Sunday, investigations into the major fire in which 300 vehicles were gutted at the parking lot on Saturday have revealed that the organisers — the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) — had not obtained a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Fire Department, which is mandatory as per guidelines.', 'Sources said the HAL failed to obtain an NOC despite a notice issued to the organisers a day before the event. Usually, organisers of major events approach the Fire Department seeking an NOC, but despite having a detailed plan for the event, the organisers did not approach the Fire and Emergency Service personnel for the NOC, an official from the Fire Department said.', 'On February 19, a team of officials from the Fire and Emergency Services visited the aero show venue and inspected the area before issuing a notice to the organisers to comply with fire-safety norms, sources said.', 'The organisers had taken control over the on-site area, including the parking lots, which according to them, comes under the purview of Ministry of Defence, fire officials said.', 'The organisers asked the police to take care of the off-site area, which includes maintaining law and order and traffic outside the venue.', 'However considering the public involvement in the on-site area, we decided to venture into the boundary and planned the deployment accordingly, said a fire official.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


200 YSRCP activists arrested in Chittoor
['As many as 200 YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) activists were arrested on Monday while staging a dharna in front of the Satyavedu police station in the district demanding the release of Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, who was arrested on Sunday night for protesting against the arrest of four party activists earlier.', 'According to informed sources, four YSRCP activists - Naresh Reddy, Chennakesava Reddy, Munikrishna Reddy and Prakash Reddy- had allegedly manhandled two persons who were carrying tablets for conducting a poll survey on Sunday evening, accusing them of “deleting names of party sympathisers” from the voters’ list.', 'Based on a complaint of the duo, Lokesh and Parandama, the Pakala police arrested the four activists under sections 341, 392, 365 and 506 of the CrPC and shifted them to Chittoor for questioning.', 'Reacting to the arrest, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy staged a protest with party activists at the District Training Centre that led to a traffic jam. The MLA was arrested under section 151 of the CrPC [Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences] and was shifted to the Satyavedu police station.', 'He alleged the police were shielding TDP activists, allegedly involved in deleting the names. He said the party MLAs from the district would approach the Election Commission over the police’s alleged harassment of party activists.', 'Meanwhile, the four arrested YSRCP activists were produced before the Pakala court on Monday and sent to judicial remand for 15 days.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DMDK continues to play hardball
['With the DMDK refusing to relent on its demand for a higher number of seats than what has been offered to it, both the Dravidian majors are finding it difficult to rope the Vijayakant-led party into their front.', 'On Monday, DMK sources said that during an informal chat with Congress leaders, it was suggested that the DMDK could be accommodated if the Congress gave up two of the 10 seats allocated to it.', 'A senior Congress leader said it was impossible at this juncture to sacrifice seats since there were many aspirants for the 10 seats allotted to the party.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


AMMK cadre want T.T.V. to enter the electoral fray
['Members of the AMMK want deputy general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran to enter the electoral fray in Theni Parliamentary constituency, according to Thanga Tamilselvan, the propaganda secretary of the party.', 'While a member of the AIADMK, Mr. Dhinakaran was elected in the 1999 Lok Sabha polls from Periyakulam, which was subsumed into the newly-formed Theni constituency following the 2008 delimitation exercise. However, in 2004, he lost by a margin of 21,555 votes to Congress nominee J.M. Aaron Rashid.', 'Regarded as a traditional stronghold of the AIADMK, the constituency, prior to 2008, was won by the ruling party seven times.', 'In 2014, the AIADMK’s R. Parthiban emerged victorious, securing 5.71 lakh votes and defeating his nearest rival Pon. Muthuramalingam of the DMK, who received around 2.56 lakh votes. Two years later, Theni continued to remain loyal to the AIADMK as all its six Assembly constituencies were captured by the ruling party. In 2016, the sum of votes secured in all the six places was about 5.70 lakh, which meant there was no erosion of the vote base in terms of absolute figures. However, in terms of vote share, the AIADMK secured around 53% in 2014, whereas it could obtain only 49.4% in the 2016 Assembly polls.', 'Known for having a large number of Mukkulathor voters, Theni also has sizeable number of Scheduled Caste and Muslim voters.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Automation in micro irrigation will help boost sugarcane yield’
['Embracing tech: A team of APMIC scientists installing an automation unit at a sugarcane field in Chittoor district.', 'The Andhra Pradesh Micro Irrigation Project (APMIC) is making efforts to increase sugarcane yield to 160 tonnes per acre in the Chittoor district in a year by introducing automation in micro irrigation methods.', 'An APMIC team, led by its project director Y. Vidya Shankar, held an awareness camp at the weekend involving a demonstration of automation machines, to be attached to pipes and drips, for 200 farmers from eastern mandals at Krishna Ramapuram village of Nindra mandal.', 'Mr. Shankar said the method would help regulate water flow to crops, maintain soil fertility and supply adequate amount of fertilizer to crops. The APMIC aimed at reaching the yield on a par with Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.', 'He sought farmers to contact the APMIC district office in Chittoor for assistance in setting up of equipment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Mahua savouries from tribal kitchens to hit markets
['D. Divya.', 'Therefore, the new plan of the Adilabad district administration, perhaps the first of its kind in the country, to help indigenous people protect their culture hinges on plantation of mahua and introduction of the lesser known tasty savouries and eatables made out of the flowers of the sacred tree in the headquarter town, in near future.', 'Mahua trees come into bloom between latter half of March and April. Each tree sheds its flowers in the morning every day, over a period of 15 to 20 days and yields about 1.5 quintals to 2 quintals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


We’re fine with or without DMDK, says Minister
['The AIADMK, which has been trying to rope the DMDK into its alliance for the Lok Sabha election, appears to be getting ready for the scenario where the latter does not join the front.', 'He, however, hastened to add that talks with various parties were still on. He did not wish to get drawn into the argument put forth by the DMDK’s representatives about the strength of their party.', 'In Salem, Chief Minister and the AIADMK’s co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, when asked about Mr. Jayakumar’s comments, said, “That is his personal opinion. I have not heard what he has said.” But talks were on with many parties, whom we would like to join our front, he added.', 'On the status of negotiations with the DMDK, a senior leader of the ruling party said that while the AIADMK could concede only three Lok Sabha seats and one Rajya Sabha seat, the other side was still insistent on seven seats — a demand the ruling party could ill afford to fulfil.', 'Another hitch in the negotiations between the two parties is the reported demand of the DMDK for the allotment of eight seats out of the 21 constituencies where bypolls are due to be held along with the Lok Sabha polls. The AIADMK cannot agree to the demand as it wants to contest the byelections to all the Assembly constituencies and has secured the support of the PMK and the BJP for this.', 'Besides, what has not gone unnoticed in the political circles is that no leader of the ruling party has chosen to call on DMDK founder Vijayakant, even though BJP leader and Union Minister Piyush Goyal, DMK president M.K. Stalin and former TNCC chief S. Thirunavukkarasar met him during the past week.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ideologies, alliances are two different matters: CM
['Justifying the recently forged alliance between the ruling AIADMK and the PMK for the upcoming Lok Sabha polls, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday contended that poll alliances are not formed based on party ideologies.', 'Mr. Palaniswami argued that the PMK had, in the past, criticised the DMK in strong terms, but they had still forged electoral alliances. “Our mega alliance would win elections in all constituencies across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” he claimed.', 'The AIADMK is holding discussions with many other political parties for poll alliances, he said, adding that he was expecting them to join the front. Since the seat-sharing exercise was still on, the AIADMK had not fixed the number of seats from where it would be contesting in the LS polls, he said.', 'Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated and laid the foundation of projects to the tune of ₹432.18 crore in Salem. During his address, he strongly criticised the DMK and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for implementing various welfare schemes, including the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Groupism in Telugu Desam to the fore
['Factionalism within the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) surfaced on Monday with Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy inaugurating the Ram Nagar road overbridge (RoB) here without allegedly recognising the presence of Anantapur MLA Vaikuntam Prabhakar Chowdary and Mayor Madamanchi Swaroopa at the venue.', 'While the Mayor and the MLA were waiting at the venue for Mr. Reddy and Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao to arrive, the Anantapur MP upon reaching there surprised everyone by getting down from his vehicle and asking the priest to start the puja without allegedly inviting others. He unveiled the plaque, cut the ribbon and walked on the overbridge in the same fashion.', 'Ms. Swaroopa took objection to the MP’s not respecting the protocol of having locals leaders take part in inaugurating a project. She blamed government officials for the confusion. When Mr. Chowdary, waiting under a tent, came to know the inauguration was over, he left the venue with corporators and supporters.', 'As a justification, Mr. Reddy said he had procured funds for the project and it was for other leaders to attend the function or not. Ms. Swaroopa said it was ridiculous not to involve either the Mayor or Anantapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials, who had helped with land acquisition for the project.', 'Calling upon the party high command to take notice of the incident, Mr. Chowdary said since he did not want any untoward incident by questioning the MP, he left the venue.', 'The MP and MLA have been at loggerheads with each other for the past five years and have clashed over various issues in the past.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Comments by brother-in-law were hurtful’
['PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss has expressed anguish over the recent tirade against his party by Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) working president and his brother-in-law Vishnu Prasad.', 'Mr. Prasad had attributed motives to the PMK’s alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP for the upcoming Lok Sabha election.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Joined alliance because PMK was unsuccessful in past 4 polls’
['Until recently one of the harshest critics of the AIADMK and the BJP, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss was on Monday at pains to justify his poll pact with the two parties for the Lok Sabha election.', 'At a press conference in Chennai, he said he was not at all embarrassed about justifying the PMK’s alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP. “Definitely not. People have accepted this alliance. The AIADMK has accepted this alliance. The PMK has accepted this alliance. That’s all [that] counts,” he contended.', 'According to him, the change in the PMK’s stance that it will never align with Dravidian parties was mainly due to the party’s underwhelming performance in the last four elections in 2009, 2011, 2014 and 2016. “We contested and sought votes throughout Tamil Nadu, we worked very hard and we put forward a great election manifesto (in 2016). We were appreciated by the people but they did not give us any seats. Therefore, we have changed our strategy,” he said.', 'Asked if his party would now lay off the corruption allegations it had been levelling against top AIADMK Ministers, he said there will not be any change in its stance. “It is true that we gave a list of corruption charges to the Governor. Even today, our stand is that there should be an investigation and strong action should be taken against the corrupt,” said Mr. Anbumani.', 'He argued that parties which were opposed to one other had come together elsewhere in the country, citing the examples of the SP-BSP alliance in Uttar Pradesh, AAP-INC in New Delhi, NCP-Congress in Maharashtra, TDP-Congress in Andhra Pradesh and the DMK-Congress combine in Tamil Nadu.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fighting fire with fire was an option before water-bombing began in Bandipur
['Parts of Bandipur National Park reduced to ashes.', 'The raging flames that engulfed Himavad Gopalaswamy Betta in Bandipur were threatening to spread further as there were sporadic incidents of fire on Monday as well before the introduction of Indian Air Force choppers for water dropping helped save the day.', 'There was high drama and tension atop Gopalaswamy Betta — which has been hit worst by the fire in Bandipur — when billowing smoke rising in the distant horizon gained in intensity and began moving westward.', 'Senior officials, including Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) C. Jayaram and Chief Conservator of Forests Ambadi Madhav, surveying the damage from the hilltop, were overwhelmed on learning that smoke was emanating from the adjoining Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu. For, the incoming fire from Mudumalai could soon spread towards the tri-junction of Karnataka-Kerala-Tamil Nadu and ravage the Moolehole range which harbours a rich density of animals.', 'The officials agreed that the fire should be stopped from reaching Moolehole at all costs and decided to opt for counter-fire or backfire as a measure to stall its progress. Mr. Madhav was directed to rush towards the forest area bordering Mudumalai.', 'But C. Sridhar, head of the forest force, suggested that they should wait till the wind speed subsided, pointing out that things could go south with the combination of fire and wind. The intensity of the fire and the scale of damage was being accentuated by high winds. The normal wind speed in these areas tends to be around 5 kmph, but for the past few days it has been around 15 kmph, stoking new fires.', 'The official said he was in touch with the Meteorological Department and was informed that the wind speed was expected to reduce by Tuesday. Then the fire can be brought under control within 24 hours with water bombing, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Now, fire in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary
['Fire has broken out in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary at some places between Sangama range in Ramanagaram and Basavana Betta range in Mandya. The sanctuary, spread across Chamarajanagar, Ramanagaram and Mandya districts with an area of 1,027 sq.km, is home to a variety of flora and fauna.', 'The fire broke out at Sangama range in Kanakapura in the late hours of Sunday and rapidly spread towards the Basavana Betta range, near Muthathi of Mandya district, by Monday morning, said sources in the Forest Department. The cause is yet to be ascertained. However, it has destroyed dry vegetation in a vast area between these two ranges. The fire swiftly spread towards Muthathi because of the wind.', 'Dinesh Kallahalli, a social activist from Kanakapura, alleged that the department had failed to take precautionary measures such as creating fire lines.', 'Meanwhile, the fires that broke out on Sunday at Belli Betta Kaval reserve forest near K.R. Pet and Karighatta reserve forest near Srirangapatna were doused, according to forest officials. They are suspected to be the handiwork of local miscreants and the department will initiate action against them, the official said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?']


CB-CID to look for activist Mugilan
['With political parties stepping up pressure on the government to trace activist R.S. Mugilan alias Shanmugam, who went missing in the city, DGP T.K. Rajendran on Monday issued an order entrusting the probe to the CB-CID.', 'Mugilan was last seen by his friends around 10.30 p.m on February 15 at Egmore railway station. He was accompanied by activist V.P Ponnarasan and others when he arrived at the station to board a train to Madurai. Since then, his whereabouts are unknown. The next day, Mani, the coordinator of Tamil Nadu Students and Youth Federation, lodged a police complaint.', 'Meanwhile, political parties and social activists on Monday announced a protest on March 2, demanding that the State government and police act swiftly to trace him.', 'Mugilan worked as a full-time activist with Left parties in Namakkal and Erode districts.', 'He was also involved in agitations against the nuclear plant in Kudankulam, illegal sand mining in Thoothukudi, protests demanding the release of Cauvery water and release of seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. He actively participated in anti-Sterlite protests.', 'Mugilan disappeared hours after releasing a video documentary at Chennai Press Club alleging that IG and DIG-rank police officials orchestrated the police firing against anti-Sterlite protesters at Thoothukudi last May, which resulted in the killing of 13 people.', 'Moving a habeas corpus petition before the Madras High Court, Henri Tiphagne, Executive Director of People’s Watch, said Mugilan had boarded the train at Egmore station at 10.30 p.m. His mobile phone was active till 1.45 a.m. on Saturday. He lost connectivity at Olukkur in Villupuram district and has remained untraceable since. Mr. Tiphagne feared that the activist could have been abducted for having exposed the role of top police officials in the firing incident.', 'The gathering announced a protest on March 2 in front of the State Guest House demanding quick action in this regard and threatened that the protest would be intensified unless Mugilan was quickly traced.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?
['Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Bandipur fire: Precautionary measures found lacking?', 'Questions are being raised in conservation circles on whether the fire in Bandipur could have been avoided through adequate preventive measures.', 'There are rumours doing the rounds that precautionary measures like completing the fire lines that act as a fire break were not completed. NGOs involved in wildlife activism argue that the focus was on taking up sundry civil works rather than beefing up firefighting capabilities.', 'However, forest officials said they had recruited additional watchers on a temporary basis and deployed them in fire-prone zones, as they usually do. In Bandipur, around 400 watchers were recruited. Besides, trainees and guards on probation from other parts of the State were deployed, according to Chief Conservator of Forests Ambadi Madhav.', 'The fire was particularly intense this year as Bandipur had a surfeit of fuel in the form of dry vegetation. “The copious rains during monsoon followed by unseasonal rains till November helped in the luxurious growth of vegetation. But the forest is dry deciduous in nature and more the vegetation, more the fuel,” Mr. Madhav said.', 'Besides, there is profuse growth of lantana and epatorium in Bandipur, with the weeds covering almost 60% of the forest. Both weeds are hardy and highly combustible, and this coupled with wind during February added to the severity of the fire this year. But NGOs argue that lantana is prevalent in other national parks as well and no fires have been reported there.', 'Forest Minister Satish Jarkiholi said the fire was “an act of sabotage”. “We will use drones to help detect smoke so that fire can be identified and put out before it goes out of control. The assistance of the Fire and Emergency Services [personnel] will be taken during the onset of summer and they will be put on standby as backup,” he added.', 'However, NGOs say the Forest Department has to rope in the local community to help detect fires before they go out of control, but it has so far failed on this front.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Govt. extends Jaya panel tenure by four months
['The Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended the tenure of the Justice (retd.) Arumughaswamy Commission by four months, in the fourth such extension given to it. With its tenure lapsing on Sunday, the Commission had sought an extension to complete proceedings and finalise a report.', 'Following the Government Order, the Commission issued summons to Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam to depose before it on February 28, while seven doctors from Apollo Hospitals have been summoned for cross-examination on February 27.', 'The Madras High Court had, in the last hearing, said that the Commission was at liberty to proceed with examination of witnesses including the doctors related to the case. It is, however, not clear if the doctors will appear before the Commission on February 27.', 'The Deputy Chief Minister’s deposition is crucial as he had claimed that there were doubts about former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death and that he was unaware of the treatment given to her, a charge that has been rebutted by Apollo doctors, the then health secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar in their depositions to the Commission.', 'Mr. Panneerselvam was supposed to depose on February 19, but his lawyer filed an application the previous evening seeking an adjournment claiming that the Deputy Chief Minister had to attend to official work.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Students learn to read ancient inscriptions
['Decoding history: Students participating in training programme on epigraphy conducted by the Government Museum, Vellore.', 'It was another day filled with nice experience for a group of students of DKM College for Women, Sainathapuram, Vellore, on Saturday.', 'They were part of the one-day “Education Programme on Epigraphy” offered by the Government Museum, Vellore.', 'Thirty students doing B.A. Tamil Studies (III Year) were keen to learn the art of reading ancient inscriptions on stones and palm leaves.', 'They posed a number of questions on the inscriptions and their antiquity, and showed an appetite for reading inscriptions.', 'They were taught the process of reading Brahmi inscriptions and taking copies of them on paper as well as in digital format.', 'Brahmi is the earliest writing system developed in India after the Indus script. It is one of the most influential writing systems. Several hundreds of Brahmi scripts were found in South East and East Asia, according to epigraphists.', 'A demonstration was conducted for the students during the afternoon session and the learners were allowed to experiment their learning skills later in the day.', 'All the participants were given certificates.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Woman judge to hear actor abduction case
['The trial of the abduction and assault of a woman actor will begin before Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge 3 of the CBI special court, the Kerala High Court has ordered.', 'Justice V. Raja Vijayaraghavan issued the order on a writ petition filed by the victim seeking a special court and a woman judge to consider the case.', 'The trial of the case shall not affect the proceedings in the other cases considered by the court, instructed the High Court.', 'Counsels of actor Dileep and Sunilkumar, the two accused in the case, had opposed the plea of the victim for a woman judge to try the case.', 'However, Suman Chakravarthy, senior government pleader, contended that the move of the accused was an attempt to delay the trial in the case. While counsels of the petitioners contended that the government was supporting the woman actor, the government pleader pointed out that the State had a responsibility to support the victim.', 'The State also submitted that it was willing to set up a special court for the trial.', 'The woman actor was allegedly abducted and raped in a moving car on February 17, 2017.', 'The police have arraigned 11 persons, including Dileep, as the accused in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


CPI(M) warns of public protest
['The CPI(M) has warned of a public protest against attempts to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Group, which has emerged the highest bidder for operating the airport.', 'Addressing the media in Kottayam on Monday, Mr.Balakrishnan said the party was resolved to prevent the move at any cost.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Special passport mela at Vellore on March 2
['The Regional Passport Office, Chennai, will be holding special passport mela on Saturday at the Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSK), Vellore.', 'The appointments will be released on February 27 at 2.30 p.m. for the mela.', 'Post Office Passport Seva Kendra will function on March 2 like any other normal working day and accept applications as per time slots allotted to the applicants. To participate in the passport mela, the applicants have to log on to the official website ‘www.passportindia.gov.in’, register on-line, generate ‘ARN’ (Application Registration Number), and pay online fees and then take appointment.', 'Applicants participating in the mela should bring the printout of ARN with appointment details, to the POPSK along with the documents required in originals, plus one set of self-attested photocopies.', 'Applications under ‘Fresh’ and ‘Re-issue’ categories only will be accepted, according to a press release issued by the Regional Passport Officer, Chennai.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Para judo championship winners seek assistance
['Special effort: District Collector S.A. Raman felicitating the students who won medals in the para judo national championship, in Vellore on Monday.', 'Champion children, who participated in the three-day Seventh National Blind and Deaf Judo Championship at the Gorakhpur Club ground, met Vellore District Collector S.A. Raman at the weekly grievances day meeting here on Monday. They shared their journey to the podium and sought the district administration’s support for their future endeavours.', 'According to C.J. Sakthivel, secretary of Vellore District Blind and Deaf Para-Judo Association, the youngsters’ willingness to brave the odds was exemplary.', 'The UP Blind and Para Judo Association held the event under the auspices of the Indian Blind and Para Judo Association (IBPJA) and the Deaf Judo Association of India. In 52-kg category, Serlin won the third place and Selva won third spot in 55 kg category. Apart from these achievements, Nagalakshmi and Saranya (55kg), Jothiraman (50 kg) and Jayaprakash (55 kg) won second and third places in their respective categories at the National Level Championship held in Chennai. In that meet too, Serlin finished third and Selva second in their fields, said Mr. Sakthivel. He thanked Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu and Vellore Institute of Technology for the continuing support in grooming these children and helping them to become champions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


All set for work on check dam across Palar
['Parched land: When completed, the check dam at the last mile of the Palar will solve the twin problems of rainwater harvesting and seawater intrusion.', 'The long-pending demand for a check dam across the Palar is set to be fulfilled with the laying of the foundation stone on Monday.', 'Minister for Rural Industries P. Benjamin and Minister for Law C.Ve. Shanmugam participated in the “bhoomi puja” at a function on the banks of the Palar near Thirukazhukundram taluk.', 'The check dam is being built by the Water Resources Department through funds provided by the General Services Organisation (GSO), Kalpakkam, of the Department of Atomic Energy.', 'To be built at a cost of ₹32.50 crore, the check dam has been designed by the engineers of IIT Madras. It will benefit the villages of Kadalur and Vayalur and also meet the drinking needs of the region.', 'Mr. Benjamin said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced seven check dams during the Dr. MGR Centenary function in Kancheepuram district on August 30, 2017. Of the seven check dams, the State government had started work on the one at Esur-Vallipuram at a cost of ₹30.95 crore and work on the second check dam is set to begin shortly at the Kadalur-Vayalur.', 'He thanked the officials of the Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR) for funding the project.', 'Kancheepuram District Collector P. Ponniah said the check dam at Kadalur-Vayalur villages would solve the twin problems of harvesting the rainwater and also preventing seawater intrusion. Both the villages located at the last mile of the Palar are affected by seawater intrusion.', 'The proposed check dam would run 1.20 km across the Palar with the height being 1.50 metre.', 'The proposed check dam would help harvest rainwater of up to one thousand million cubic (TMC) feet and help in storing 500 million cubic feet of sub surface water benefiting 4,000 acres of agricultural lands and ensuring drinking water supply to the IGCAR and Madras Atomic Power Station in Kalpakkam.', 'Arun Kumar Bhaduri, Director, IGCAR, urged the State government to complete the project, before the onset of the monsoon to help harvest rainwater.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Lack of advice to pilots led to collision’
['The non-availability of any advice to the pilots by the airport operator’s dispatch section with regard to restrictions on taxiing and poor lighting have been found to be the cause of a ground collision of two aircraft at Mumbai airport in 2016.', 'An official probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board into a ground collision between a Kuwait Airways flight which had just landed in Mumbai and an IndiGo aircraft headed for Jaipur has also recommended that the Mumbai International Airport Ltd and the Airports Authority of India treat the incident site as a ‘hot spot’ till a permanent solution is reached. The incident, reported on November 30, 2016, occurred when the IndiGo aircraft was cleared to taxi via a specified path and hold when it reached a particular point.', 'The AAIB probe revealed that the Kuwait Airways aircraft, an Airbus 330 had swept wings which are subject to a phenomenon known as ‘swept wing growth’ or ‘wing creep’ that occurs during a turn when the wingtip describes an arc greater than the normal wingspan due to the geometry of the aircraft and the arrangement of the landing gear. Though in the present case, the Kuwait Airways aircraft was stationary it had hit its wing.', 'The Indigo aircraft suffered damage to the upper section of left hand Sharklet - a vertical wing-tip extension that improves the efficiency of an aircraft - was found sheared off from the main wing structure. The leading edge stainless steel cap of the Sharklet was found damaged from the top edge. Both outer and inner skin of the sharklet was also damaged.', 'The Kuwait Airways aircraft suffered outboard aileron - panels near the tip of the wing that move up and down - lower skin damage. The out board aileron trailing edge wedge structure was also damaged along with superficial paint scratches to the lower wing surface and wing trailing edge fairings.', 'The AAIB report said that an assumption by the Indigo flight crew that they were clear of the Kuwait Airways flight had continued taxiing onto taxiway N, thereafter crossing runway 14 without realising that left winglet had contacted the second aircraft.', 'AAIB said that Indigo Airlines may provide guidance material to its flight crew regarding the difficulty associated with assessing wing tip clearance. “MIAL and AAI may review the procedure for taxiing on taxiway N when an aircraft is holding on taxiway W4, short of Runway 14. MIAL may carry out assessment of the visibility conditions in the portion of W4 / N and take necessary corrective action if required,” the report said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Sensex ends 240 points lower on rising India-Pakistan tension
['The benchmark BSE Sensex on Tuesday ended 240 points lower as investor sentiment weakened after the India carried out air strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan.', 'Weak cues from global equities and selling pressure on financials and realty stocks too weighed on market mood here.', 'After cracking nearly 500 points, the 30-share Sensex pared some losses but ended 239.67 points, or 0.66%, lower at 35,973.71. It hit a low of 35,714.16 and a high of 36,172.52.', 'The gauge surged 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 44.80 points, or 0.41%, to 10,835.30 after hovering between 10,729.30 and 10,888.75.', 'Losses were more pronounced in banking, realty and PSU counters.', 'While the former may be considered reflective of the evolving broader global perspective, the latter may have limited or transient impact on the market direction, he said, adding that markets may remain quite volatile in the coming days, especially, in the light of the fast approaching general elections.', 'The Indian Air Force struck Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday in a major “preemptive” action, killing a large number of terrorists and trainers of the Pak-based terror group preparing to carry out suicide attacks in India.', 'The move came 12 days after JeM carried out the Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'Meanwhile, the rupee which depreciated 38 paise to 71.35 against the U.S. dollar in early trade, recovered partially to quote at 71.06 in late afternoon trade at the forex market, and was still trading 9 paise lower over its previous close of 70.97.', 'Among Sensex constituents, HCL Tech suffered the most by diving 2.26%, followed by HDFC shedding 2.10%.', 'Other big losers were ICICI Bank down 2.08%, Infosys 1.75%, SBI 1.44%, Vedanta 1.20%, Hero MotoCorp 1.15%, RIL 1.01% and L&T 1%.', 'Also, Bharti Airtel fell 0.88%, IndusInd Bank 0.79%, HDFC Bank 0.72%, ITC 0.65%, Kotak Bank 0.44%, ONGC 0.37%, Maruti Suzuki 0.36%, PowerGrid 0.36%, Bajaj Finance 0.27%, HUL 0.19%, M&M 0.15%, Tata Steel 0.14% and Sun Pharma 0.03%.', 'However, Bajaj Auto and Asian Paint managed to end in the green.', 'Shares of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation fell by 0.74% after NSE said Britannia Industries will replace the oil marketing company in the Nifty50 index from March 29.', 'Shares of Britannia Industries, on the other hand, gained 0.95% to ₹3,073.80 on the BSE.', 'In sectoral terms, the BSE realty index dropped 1.63%, bankex (0.75%), capital goods (0.69%), FMCG (0.47%), consumer durables (0.43%), infrastructure (0.38%), PSU (0.20%), IT (0.16%) and healthcare (0.13%).', 'However, auto index topped the gainers list by rising 0.32%, followed by oil & gas 0.18%, power 0.10%, metal 0.07%, teck 0.04% and power 0.02%.', 'The broader markets were in a somewhat mixed shape with mid-cap index falling 0.27%, while small-cap index rising 0.26%.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'DIIs sold shares worth ₹1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'Elsewhere in Asia, Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.67%, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 0.61%, Japan’s Nikkei shed 0.37%, Korea’s Kospi was down 0.32% and Singapore Straits Times slipped 0.32%.', 'In European markets, Frankfurt’s DAX was down 0.49%, and Paris CAC 40 dropped 0.42% in their early session. London’s FTSE declined 0.82%.', 'The U.S. Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23% higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gold falls ₹60 on weak global cues, muted demand
['Representational image.', 'Gold prices fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams at the bullion market on Tuesday backed by weak trend overseas amid easing demand from local jewellers at prevailing levels, according to All India Sarafa Association.', 'Silver, too, dropped by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg owing to reduced offtake by industrial units, while its coins strengthened on increased demand.', 'Traders said apart from a weak trend overseas, decline in demand from local jewellers and retailers at existing levels in domestic spot market, mainly weighed on the gold and silver prices.', 'Globally, spot gold fell 0.14% to $1,326.30 an ounce and spot silver by 0.16% to $15.93 an ounce in New York.', 'In the national capital, gold of 99.9% fell by ₹60 to ₹34,530 per 10 grams, while gold of 99.5% shed ₹40 to ₹34,400 per 10 gram.', 'Sovereign gold, however, remained unaltered at ₹26,600 per piece of eight grams in limited deals.', 'Following gold, silver ready too moved down by ₹195 to ₹41,405 per kg and weekly-based delivery fell by ₹314 to ₹40,076 per kg.', 'On the other side, silver coins increased by ₹1,000 to ₹83,000 for buying and to ₹84,000 for selling of 100 pieces.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Sensex cracks over 350 points; Nifty below 10,800
['A view of the BSE building in Mumbai.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The benchmark BSE Sensex fell over 350 points in early trade on Tuesday amid rising tension between India and Pakistan, weak Asian cues and selling pressure on banking, power, IT and power counters.', 'The Sensex was trading 343.20 points, or 0.95 per cent, down at 35,870.18 after touching a low of 35,842.58. The gauge rallied 342 points in Monday’s trade.', 'The 50-share Nifty also fell 105.45 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 10,774.65.', 'According to brokers, domestic investor sentiment took a beating after the Pakistan Army on Tuesday alleged that the Indian Air Force violated the Line of Control (LoC) in Muzafarabad sector.', 'The allegation came amid heightened tension between India and Pakistan after the February 14 suicide attack by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror group that killed 40 CRPF soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district.', 'The laggards that dragged the key indices include Yes Bank, Hero MotoCorp, Tata Steel, Vedanta, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, SBI, RIL, M&M, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Infosys, NTPC, HDFC, Maruti Suzuki, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, L&T, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Asian Paint, ITC and ONGC, falling by up to 2.38 per cent.', 'On the other hand, TCS, HUL and Tata Motors rose up to 0.93 per cent.', 'Most of the BSE sectoral indices were trading in the red, led by banking, power, PSU, realty and IT stocks with losses up to 0.90 per cent.', 'Fresh round of selling by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) also dampened market sentiment here, brokers said.', 'Meanwhile, DIIs sold shares worth ₹ 1,764.4 crore, while foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth a net of ₹ 2,134.35 crore on Monday, provisional data showed.', 'In the Asian region, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng was down 0.49 per cent, Japan’s Nikkei fell 0.20 per cent, Taiwan shed 0.14 per cent, Korea’s Kospi shed 0.19 per cent and Singapore Straits Times was down 0.27 per cent in late morning trade Tuesday.', 'The US Dow Jones Industrial Average, however, ended 0.23 per cent higher on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Rupee sheds 33 paise against US dollar in early trade
['The rupee on Tuesday sheds 30 paise against US dollar in early trade.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'The rupee depreciated 33 paise to 71.30 against $ in early trade on Tuesday at the forex market on fresh demand for the US currency from importers.', 'Strength in dollar against some currencies overseas and a lower opening in domestic equities kept pressure on the domestic unit, dealers said.', 'On Monday, the rupee firmed up by 17 paise to close at 70.97 against $ in line with most Asian currencies amid hopes that the US and China will soon reach an agreement to settle their trade tariff issues.', 'Meanwhile, the benchmark BSE Sensex fell 349.78 points, or 0.97 per cent, to 35,863.60 in opening deals Tuesday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Indra Nooyi joins Amazon’s Board of Directors
['PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi.', 'PepsiCo’s India-born former CEO Indra Nooyi has joined Amazon’s board of directors, the online retail giant has said.', 'Ms. Nooyi, who stepped down as CEO of Pepsico in October last year, is the second woman of colour to be added on the Amazon’s board of Directors.', 'Early this month, Starbucks executive Rosalind Brewer joined the Amazon Board.', 'Ms. Nooyi will be a member of the audit committee.', 'She was Pepsico CEO from October 2006 to October 2018, where she also served as the Chairman of its board of directors from May 2007 to February 2019.', 'She was elected to PepsiCo’s board of directors and became its President and Chief Financial Officer in 2001, and held leadership roles in finance, corporate strategy and development, and strategic planning after joining PepsiCo in 1994.', 'Ms. Nooyi has served as a director of Schlumberger Limited since April 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Jet Airways pilots to wear black bands, not to work extra hours
['Following a crucial meeting of Jet Airways management with its pilot union on Monday, National Aviators Guild (NAG), the pilot’s body announced a black-band protest from March 1 as the airline was unable to give a further payout commitment.', 'In a communique sent to pilots, NAG said that 25% of November salary along with 12.5% of December salary (Totaling to 37.5%) will be processed on February 26. “Since the management was unable to give any further payout commitment, a flight safety period along with black band protest will begin from March 1. A detailed mail will be sent soon by NAG,” the communique said.', 'NAG directed all its members to send their March roster to their respective team leaders in PDF format. “Roster should be sent latest by February 27. Members who are not on WhatsApp should send their roster via mail to their respective team leader,” it said.', 'Dissatisfaction among pilots has come at a time when the airline is yet to update on its resolution plan that was cleared by shareholders during an extraordinary general meeting held on February 21. The resolution plan includes allotment of fresh shares and conversion of debt into equity.', 'Jet Airways has a debt of nearly ₹8,000 crore and needs to make repayments of up to ₹1,700 crore by the end of March.', 'A press statement, issued by NAG late on Monday, said that it is in public domain that Jet Airways is going through turbulent times. “While all employees have been getting their salaries on time, pilots and AMEs (engineers) have been doled out part payments every once in a while and are now running several months behind on their salaries,” it said.', 'NAG added that despite this, the pilots had stood steadfast by the company and maintained flight schedules through the last few months in the hope that its support would see the brand we all helped build once again achieve the prominence it enjoyed not so long ago.', 'The pilots body said that to understand that it is now being forced to take some simple measures to alleviate the huge levels of stress. “Measures to ensure that at least the factors that are in our hand, such as maintaining the promulgated rest, spending time with our families, seeking professional help where the stress is getting the better of someone and so on,” NAG’s statement read.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Start-up NIRAMAI raises $6 mn
['Artificial intelligence-based health tech start-up NIRAMAI Health Analytix has closed $6 million in a Series A round of funding, led by Dream Incubator, a Japanese VC firm, with participation from BEENEXT and other investors.', 'Ventures, Ankur Capital, Axilor Ventures and Binny Bansal also participated in the round. The funds will be used for scaling up in India, hiring top talent and getting additional regulatory approvals for international expansion,” said a company statement. Founded in July 2016 by Geetha Manjunath and Nidhi Mathur, NIRAMAI has previously raised a seed round of $1mn in April 2017.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Tata Motors to launch Altroz in mid-2019
['Tata Motors has named its upcoming hatchback as Altroz. Called 45X Concept during the Auto Expo 2018, the production version of the vehicle would be unveiled at the Geneva Motors Show 2019. The name is inspired from the bird ‘Albatross’.', 'Mayank Pareek, president, passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, said: “The upcoming model will redefine the premium hatchback segment for the industry.” The vehicle will be introduced in mid-2019. It would be the first product to be engineered on Tata Motors’s new Agile Light Flexible Advanced architecture.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


JBM acquires majority stake in Linde-Wiemann
['Auto components major JBM Group on Monday said it had acquired majority shareholding in Germany-based Linde-Wiemann GmbH KG — a manufacturer of complex structural components and assemblies to automakers globally.', 'While the company said this was the biggest business transaction in the history of the JBM Group, financial details of the deal were not disclosed. However, it added that the group’s turnover is expected to leapfrog to $2.2 billion.', 'Linde-Wiemann, with revenues of $700 million and 2,300 employees, has base of 17 manufacturing plants across eight countries, including Germany, U.S., China, Spain, Turkey, the Czech Republic, Hungary and South Africa.', 'The acquisition is being done through the the group’s flagship company, Neel Metal Products.', 'Linde-Wiemann specialises in proprietary technologies in areas such as hot forming, tubular assemblies and usage of alternate materials such as aluminium resulting in lighweighting in auto systems. “JBM will also have access to L+W’s strengths in domains such as Electric Vehicle components & systems and battery structure & systems,” the company statement added.', 'Nishant Arya, Executive Director, JBM Group, said: “…We are looking forward to leveraging L+W’s experience in Europe coupled with our expertise in the auto component domain. JBM and L+W will together focus on developing new products that contribute towards improving the safety and performance of vehicles through light-weighting, thereby increasing the product quality and minimizing the time to market for OEMs, making it an integrated one-stop solution”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Mahindra unveils e-mobility service Glyd
['Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. has forayed into the shared mobility space by starting Glyd, a premium technology-based e-mobility service, in Mumbai on select routes.', 'To begin with, the service would be made available to company executives working in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). They can travel from home to office and return home in the evening using the electric vehicle (EV) fleet. There is fixed tariff for commuters and predictability on the type of vehicle one would be commuting in.', 'Dr. Pawan Goenka, managing director, M&M Ltd., flagged off the first batch of 10 e-Veritos, the company’s electric sedan, from Mahindra’s Kandivali manufacturing unit in the city.', 'The plan is to scale up the service across the city and then go pan-India. Glyd would only use Mahindra EVs to promote e-mobility in the country.', 'Glyd would offer a premium in-commute experience to executives, powered by several connected car features such as web-conferencing, curated entertainment and music content from selective partners. In addition, features such as privacy screen, air purifier for a rejuvenating journey and strain-free lighting would provide a one-of-its-kind experience to the commuters. To offer stress free commute, vehicles will be equipped with comfort friendly features such as bolstered seats, wrap-around headrest and custom designed armrests.', 'To ensure privacy, a section of the fleet has partitions in the rear seat so that one is not disturbed by the co-passenger. One can book the full car or a seat through the Glyd app.', 'He said shared mobility had become a reality and OEMs cannot sit on the sidelines to watch its growth.', 'Glyd has partnered with Vodafone-Idea Ltd., Cisco Systems and other service and content providers to launch these services in Mumbai. Tata Power has provided the charging infrastructure.', 'Glyd, which combines superior comfort with personalised content delivery, can be booked via Android and iOs apps., The service is targeted towards the daily commuter.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Jet will re-emerge as a  financially-strong  airline’
['Jet Airways and Etihad Airways said the debt-laden airline has been patronised by its guests and will re-emerge stronger after the implementation of the bank-led provisional resolution plan (BLPRP).', 'They said in the last year, the aviation industry had experienced extraordinary headwinds and challenges and Jet Airways had been hit harder than others.', 'They said the airline’s network load factor had risen to a high of 87% through December 2018 and January 2019. Flight cancellation rate in December 2018 stood at a mere 0.2%, the lowest among Indian carriers. Technical dispatch reliability in 3Q 2018, meanwhile, stood at 99.52%.', 'Meanwhile, the State Bank of India (SBI) had denied a media report that said it had decided to refer Jet Airways to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Adani Group flies high in airport privatisation plan
['The adage ‘the winner takes it all’ has come true in the case of the outcome of the latest round of Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) airport privatisation programme.', 'These include airports at Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Lucknow and Thiruvananthapuram which are all run by AAI now and will undergo ownership change in 90 days.', 'Going by the bids, Adani Group, a new entrant in the airport space, has bid aggressively with the second-highest bidders quoting far less than the winner, indicating the aggression with which the group had placed its bids.', 'GMR, which had also bid for all the airports, was found to be lacking in aggression. For Jaipur, GMR had quoted ₹69 per passenger as against Adani’s ₹174 as per passenger fee.', 'This will enable AAI to invest in the development of new airports or modernising the existing ones.', 'An analyst, who did not wish to be named, questioned the rationale behind awarding all the airports to a single player who had no experience in running airports.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Adani is the highest bidder for 5 airports
['Adani Enterprises Ltd. emerged as the highest bidder for five of the six airports offered for bidding by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).', 'The winner would operate, manage and develop the airports for a period of 50 years. The Cabinet has to accord its approval for the same, according to a senior AAI official.', 'The AAI opened the financial bids of nine entities on Monday, more than a week after technical bids were opened in a two-phase bidding process. Adani Enterprises was among the 10 companies which had submitted a total of 32 bids for the six airports. One of the bidders didn’t make it to the final round because of an error in its submission.', 'Bids were invited on the basis of per-passenger fee for passengers handled at the airport. The result for the sixth airport was withheld as per the directions of the Gauhati High Court which said the bid should not be opened until a hearing on Monday. An AAI official said the HC had now permitted it to open the bid on Tuesday, though the final awarding of the airport would be subject to the court’s order.', 'He added that the highest bidder “quoted very aggressively” and the per-passenger fee quoted by it was way above all the other bidders.', 'Adani Enterprises has offered ₹177 per passenger for Ahmedabad Airport, ₹174 for Jaipur, ₹171 for Lucknow, ₹168 for Thiruvananthpuram and ₹115 for Mangaluru.', 'The request for proposal document doesn’t bar the Authority from awarding different airports to the same entity. Industry experts estimate that the AAI would be able to garner more than ₹500 crore in the first year alone of awarding the airports to the concessionaires.', 'The government has finally made some headway in partial privatisation of some of its airports after altering the revenue model from a percentage of gross revenue to be given by the concessionaire to per-passenger fee.', 'In 2015, the AAI invited bids for complete privatisation of Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Jaipur airports but aborted the process.', 'This was followed by an attempt to rope in Singapore’s Changi Airport during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the island nation in November 2015. However, AAI twice rejected Changi Airport’s proposal to operate and maintain the Jaipur and the Ahmedabad airports on the grounds that it was “unfeasible” and not commercially viable for the government airport operator.', 'The AAI made yet another effort in 2016 when it placed a request for proposal (RFP) from bidders for operation and maintenance of “select areas” of the Jaipur and the Ahmedabad airports. Following a lukewarm response, several bidding parameters were revised and deadlines extended many times only to lead to just one qualified bidder.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Logos to buy warehousing assets from Casa Grande
['Pacts signed for 2.2 million sq. ft.', 'Casa Grande Distripark Pvt. Ltd., the warehousing and industrial logistics park development arm of Casagrand Builder Pvt. Ltd., has entered into agreements to sell 2.2 million square feet of pre-leased warehousing assets to Logos for an unspecified amount.', 'Avendus Capital was the exclusive financial adviser to Casa Grande Distripark on the transaction. Logos’s Indian business is a partnership between Logos and Assetz Property Group.', 'The property has been acquired within Logos’s India Logistics Venture, which has commitments from Canadian investors Ivanhoé Cambridge and QuadReal Property Group. The deal marks Logos’s first operational footprint in the fast-growing warehousing market of India and reflects a strong interest from global investors in this industry.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


PPIs get six months more to finish KYC
['The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the deadline to complete know your customer process by the Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) issuers by another six months. Earlier, PPI issuers were required to complete the KYC process by February 28, 2019.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Brokerages trade weaker post SEBI action
['After last week’s action by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) against two commodity brokerages, concerns over possibility of similar action on the much larger equity business of the brokerages hit their valuations in Monday’s trade.', 'On Friday, SEBI rejected the applications for registration of the commodity arms of Motilal Oswal Financial Services and IIFL Holdings.', 'The regulator further directed that all their existing commodity broking clients be allowed to move to other brokerages within 45 days.', 'There was speculation as to whether the equity business would be subjected to additional regulatory compliance or proceedings since the commodity arms had been found unfit to function due to their alleged role in the ₹5,600-crore settlement scam at the National Spot Exchange Ltd. (NSEL).', 'Shares of Motilal Oswal Financial Services fell more than 2%, or ₹12.60, to ₹599.70. That the stock was in focus was further corroborated by the fact that the volume saw an eightfold rise on the BSE with 32,000 shares changing hands versus the two-week average of less than 4,000 shares.', 'IIFL Holdings too lost a little over 1%, or ₹3.85, to close at ₹361.50. During intra-day trades, however, the stock was down almost 9%, or ₹33, to touch a low of ₹332.50.', 'The NSEL matter saw SEBI acting against 63 Moons Technologies, formerly Financial Technologies, after the erstwhile Forward Markets Commission found it unfit to function in the commodity market. Both broking houses said while they were evaluating legal options, they believed that SEBI’s orders would not impact their other businesses.', 'Shares of JM Financial and Geojit Financial Services also lost ground before closing the day with gains.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Banks may set repo rate as  benchmark
['Most commercial banks in India are likely to select RBI’s repo rate as the external benchmark to decide their lending rates, from April 1. The repo rate is the key policy rate of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).', 'The banking regulator had asked the banks to move to an external benchmark for loan pricing from April 1, a move expected to improve monetary transmission as lenders had, in the past, been found reluctant to reduce lending rate.', 'Banks had four options from which to choose the external benchmark: the repo rate, the 91-day treasury bill, the 182-day T-bill or any other benchmark interest rate produced by the Financial Benchmarks India Private Ltd (FBIL).', 'The marginal cost of fund based lending rate (MCLR) is currently the benchmark for all loan rates. Banks typically add a spread to the MCLR while pricing loans for homes and automobiles.', 'For the new benchmark, the central bank has mandated that the spread over the benchmark rate — to be decided by banks at the inception of the loan — should remain unchanged through the life of the loan, unless the borrower’s credit assessment undergoes a substantial change and as agreed upon in the loan contract.', 'If the lending rates are linked to the repo rate, any change in the repo rate will immediately impact the home and auto loan rates, since RBI has mandated the spread to remain fixed over the life of the loan.', 'Many banks have opposed the move to shift to a new external benchmark for loan pricing on grounds that their cost of funds are not linked to these benchmarks and that without a fall in the costs, it would not be possible to change the rates.', 'The issue came up for discussion again last week when RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, along with his deputies, met the bank chiefs to discuss monetary transmission.', 'However, banks are not hopeful that the central bank will defer the introduction of the new benchmark.', 'RBI was expected to issue the final guidelines on the matter by December-end but the guidelines are yet to come. Banking industry sources indicate that the final guidelines will be issued in March.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


IL&FS accounts can’t be NPAs without NCLAT nod
['No bank or financial institution can declare the accounts of debt-ridden IL&FS and its group companies as non-performing assets (NPAs) without NCLAT’s permission, the appellate tribunal said on Monday.', 'The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) bench said this has been done in the interest of IL&FS debt resolution plan.', 'The direction came after the hearing of an application moved by the government.', 'The new management of IL&FS is pursuing asset sales to bail out the company and its group entities and pay back its lenders over ₹90,000 crore.', 'During the last hearing on February 11, NCLAT had allowed IL&FS group’s 22 companies, classified in the green category based on their financial health, to service their debt obligations.', 'It had also approved the appointment of former Supreme Court judge D. K. Jain to supervise the resolution process. NCLAT had also lifted the moratorium and allowed 133 IL&FS firms incorporated outside India to continue with the resolution process. IL&FS group companies are classified into three groups — green, amber and red.', 'The companies falling under green category will continue to meet their payment obligation. While the companies which cannot meet their obligations but can meet only operational payment obligations to senior secured financial creditors are classified as amber.', 'The red category includes those entities which cannot meet their payment obligations towards even senior secured financial creditors.', 'Meanwhile IL&FS on Monday said four workers of one of its subsidiaries who were held hostage in Ethiopia over non-payment of dues have safely returned to India.', 'ITNL, through its subsidiary Elsamex SA, has been executing projects across various sites in Ethiopia.', 'Since mid-2018, under instructions of ITNL, several of the Indian staff employed by its project companies, had returned to India. However, a few Indian employees were not being allowed to leave Ethiopia for past several weeks on account of unpaid dues of locals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Luxmi Tea to buy Mcleod Russel’s Africa tea gardens
['Luxmi Tea Company, which came into the limelight with the acquisition of the iconic Makaibari Tea estate in Darjeeling, is aiming to boost its kitty of quality teas through a proposed purchase of the African tea estates of Mcleod Russel India Ltd.(MRIL) for about ₹149 crore.', 'MRIL, a B.M. Khaitan Group company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Borelli Tea Holdings Ltd., has entered into an agreement with Rwanda Tea Investments Ltd. (RTIL) for selling its entire stake in Gisovu Tea Company Ltd., Rwanda and half its stake in Pfunda Tea Company, also in Rwanda. Luxmi Tea Company and The Wood Foundation, Africa are the shareholders of RTIL.', 'The total turnover of Gisovu and Pfunda is ₹125 crore, accounting for 5.6% of MRIL’s 2017-18 turnover.', 'MRIL had earlier sold four Assam tea estates to Luxmi Tea Company, which is more than 100 years old and whose crop averages 23 million kg. It has 12 gardens in Assam, three in West Bengal and five in Tripura, besides a garden in Rwanda with The Wood Foundation.', 'MRIL entered Africa in 2009, a year after entering Vietnam. It closed the third quarter with a dip in profit (₹53 crore) and a lower crop (149 million kg) with the company saying that figures were not comparable due its sale of 12 gardens since July 2018. Profits at Rwanda gardens too were lower.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Save the Dolphin
['When was the last time you saw one on our roads?', 'In this sequel to the previous column that suggested a Red Data List for rare machines, I tow the Sipani Dolphin into the spotlight. That’s no typo, I did key in ‘tow’. Because, the marque seems all but forgotten and abandoned. If there is a Dolphin enthusiasts club somewhere, it is most definitely functioning along the lines of secret societies that are allergic to attention. Not only that, in recent times, my paths have not crossed with individual collectors that have a Dolphin on their flaunt list.', 'Before anything else, let us first look at the background to the Dolphin story. The Maruti 800 with its front-wheel drive arrived in 1983, and the Dolphin had arrived a year earlier. For the Dolphin, it was akin to running into Novak Djokovic in the first round. With Djokovic across the net, a club-level player would find his weaknesses more exposed than ever before, and his strengths less inviting. And that is what happened in the Maruti-Dolphin story. Montana, the five-door hatchback (that is, if you count the tailgate, the Brit way), was essentially a last-ditch effort by the Bengaluru-based Sipani Automobiles Ltd to steal some of the 800’s thunder. With just one door on each of the two sides, the Dolphin had to fight a bias built into the Indian car buyers’ market. There was also the elongated Dolphin Estate, again with one door on each of the two sides. Not only these two, but the Montana could not do anything either to cause a dent in the popularity of the 800.', 'The Dolphin, the Montana and earlier the three-wheel Badal, were patterned, down to the cotter-pin, on machines from British automobile manufacturer Reliant Motor Company. Just like their British counterparts, these fibreglass-bodied cars had enough quirkiness to make themselves endearing, in a market ruled by the Maruti, the Ambassador and the Premier Padmini.', 'It takes fanboys of a vehicle to present everything about it in the best possible light. The Sipani Dolphin had one in Suresh Rau, a dentist with an ability for quick and inventive verbal humour. When he was featured in this column with his white Dolphin many, many summers ago, he defended the car’s two-door format, saying it spared parents the hassle of having to remember to engage the child locks and ensured greater safety for children parked in the rear seat.', 'Not just user recommendations, the Dolphin also had some rally-sport stats to buttress its case. In the mid 1980s, the Dolphin came to be associated with endurance rallying, as a good number of participants chose to sit behind its front windshield. The Dolphin should have counted itself lucky that the duo comprising race-rally driver Vicky Chandhok and navigator Rajiv Rai was among them.', 'In the mid-1980s, the two steered the Dolphin to many a victory in gruelling rallies, that included the Rallye d’Endurance and the South India rally. In those days, rallies in India were long-drawn and ranged over an expansive terrain. The challenge would often last ten days and take in many states across the country. So, the machines had to withstand the punishing schedule. Going by its popularity on the rally circuit of those days, the Dolphin did that very well.', 'Focussing on the issue at hand, a count of Dolphins, or any other rare vehicle for that matter, in the country, should be possible with the support of pan-India groups operating within the hobby. One of the ready examples is the Federation of Historic Vehicles of India formed in 2017. Affiliated to the Fédération Internationale des Véhicules Anciens, this group has so far organised two drives for its member-groups in two parts of the country, with the goal of introducing them to various collections of vintage vehicles. The first — FHVI Royal Classic Car Drive to Mysore — took place in September-October last. The second, a drive from Ahmedabad to Jaipur, ended last week.', 'In the future, the Federation could throw slight detours into its itineraries for the purpose of identifying rare vehicles that may have to be helped on to their wheels. Hereby, I am repeating a suggestion made in the last column.', 'Now, any efforts to have some ‘moving Dolphins’ on our roads can be supported by technical expertise from beyond our shores. In other words, from clubs formed and kept alive by owners and enthusiasts of Reliant cars, especially Reliant Kitten after which the Sipani Dolphin is modelled. Recently, I chanced upon one Reliant Motor Club that seems to have a good online presence (www.reliant.website). There are probably a few others.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Willy Wonka on wheels
['Think toy cars and the name that comes to most people’s minds is Hot Wheels — the toy car line introduced by Mattel back in 1968, which is still going strong today. They started out as just toys, and of course still are, but you will even find collector clubs, speciality retail stores, and even restoration services dedicated to these tiny models.', 'As with all things collectable, some of these cars are very valuable. Reportedly, the highest amount paid for one, a pink VW bus (Beach Bomb), stands at over ₹50 lakh! And here’s a fun fact: Hot Wheels is technically the world’s largest automobile company; every year, over 200 of their models make it to production and 16.5 cars are sold every second!', 'I’ve had these cars as a child and currently have an entirely new collection. So a trip to the firm’s design studio in Los Angeles, California, is a pilgrimage of sorts — a chance to meet the men who dream up these creations, who craft desirable replicas, and who silently siphon off my money, sigh.', 'The design studio is a warehouse-like building located just across the towers housing Mattel’s global headquarters. Apart from the massive, steel Hot Wheels flame logo on the lawn outside, there’s nothing out of the ordinary about the warehouse. Walk in though and it’s like the toy store equivalent of Willy Wonka’s chocolate factory. There are toys everywhere — cars, track sets, dolls, board games, full-size mock-ups, and, of course, more cars and track sets. It’s like stepping into your childhood fantasy, or, for me, a present-day one too. Work desks are also like individual showcases, with cars, sketches and posters adorning the area; you can see their great sense of passion. And then there are the displays — Hot Wheels does build larger scales, but it’s the 1:64 scale that gets the most attention.', 'Don’t let all this playfulness fool you though. The facility has workstations, conference rooms, and pin boards, too, where serious business takes place. And in a lot of areas I’m not allowed to shoot, because of the upcoming new models and also due to Mattel’s systems and processes that they’d like to keep secret. My hosts today are Natalie from PR and Brendon Vetuskey, lead designer for Hot Wheels Cars/Red Line Club die-cast and Monster Trucks die-cast vehicles. So how does a Hot Wheels car come together? Brendon gives me the low-down.', 'You could divide the cars into two broad types — licensed replicas and the company’s own creations. The replicas stay quite true to the real thing, but are altered to look good at a small scale. For example, some lines might be toned down, exaggerated or perhaps even done away with altogether. Also, while the scale is 1:64, some are made larger or smaller; packaging and even aesthetic requirements have to be kept in mind. To begin with, sketches are made and sent to the respective manufacturers for feedback and approval, and this is something that happens all through the process. Character cars (like a superhero car) also go through this process, but there is a lot of brainstorming at the beginning to figure out what shape, style, colour and even finish would best bring out the character’s traits.', 'Quite a few of the staff here have worked as designers at auto companies previously, and so, when it comes to the Hot Wheels original designs, the designers go completely wild. They’ve done cars that resemble animals, sharks, appliances. There’s even one that looks like a western commode, porta-potty anyone? Many of these also get some kind of mechanism — like the potty’s seat flips up and down as it rolls.', 'Next in the process is the 3D model. Mattel has on-site 3D printing that allows designers a chance to quickly see their sketch in the flesh and make any alterations as required. Once approved, the design travels across the world to sites in Asia, where it is further refined for production. After that, there are a couple of pilot production phases, and among other checks, there are the rolling performance tests — remember the giant track?', 'An interesting aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that all cars need to be made up of five basic components — the body, windows, interiors, axle and wheels, and the chassis or base. And, of course, nearly all are designed for what Mattel calls a ‘drop-in assembly’, allowing the factory worker to simply drop each section into the other for a quick build.', 'And that is how you make a little car; I say little because Hot Wheels does have some life-size cars too. After the design facility tour, Brendon shows me the garage. There are a couple of real Chevy Camaros painted in the style of the Hot Wheels models and, amazingly, they’ve also built a few 1:1 models of their originals — some are drivable too! So while toys imitate real life, at Hot Wheels, real life imitates toys too.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘I don’t get attached to any car’
['It was a dream to buy a Scorpio, so I bought one. Later, I wanted to buy an Audi as Radhika, my wife, who was my girlfriend then, wanted one. She felt that the car was nice and was keen on an Audi A4. But to surprise her, I went ahead and bought her an Audi A6.', 'Cars have always been there, but, I don’t get too attached to any of them. They are just a mode of transportation for me.', 'My life on wheels has been pretty non-dramatic, unlike my profession. But cars have been an important part of my life. I often eat in my car. In fact, if you see my car, you will see it is my second home. There will be clothes, food, snacks, besides a pillow and a blanket. I also carry a medical kit in my car. There have been times when I have even slept in my car, especially during late-night shoots.', 'I also love bikes, especially the RX 100. It has been one of my favourite vehicles. I was barely in high school when I was dreaming of owning one. But my parents did not buy me one till I was in college, when they gifted me an RX 100. I had also modified it in some small ways, which only added to its appeal.', 'Sadly, my parents sold it off as they felt I was beginning to get distracted and not focussing on my studies. That was the saddest day of my life. I was so disappointed that I almost locked myself up in my room for a couple of days.', 'After that, I decided, no matter what I wanted, I would work hard, earn my own money and buy my own vehicle. Even now, my parents tease me about my reaction.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A life on the road
['In the next hour, I’ve packed two pannier-size bags, put my riding gear on, fired up the Harley-Davidson Street Glide and joined three riders on National Highway 48. The murky air clears up — as I leave Delhi’s noxious skies behind — and so does my mind: there’s never a good enough reason not to ride out of town.', 'Riding a motorcycle is all about sensory gratification. The sound of the engine, the wind buffeting the face, the satisfying clunk of the gearbox, the vibration under the seat. The best way to articulate what the H-D Street Glide — my ride for the trip — feels like, would be to amplify these inputs to superlative levels. While H-D’s new Milwaukee-Eight engine — infinitely more refined than its predecessors — takes a lot of credit for that, the weightiness of the Glide’s appeal is borne literally out of heft.', 'The largest ‘Softail’ in H-D’s line-up, the 400-kilogram Glide is the classic American cruiser, replete with a stereo, navigation software, massive windscreen, aircraft-like console, a couch for the saddle, and more chrome and leather than you’d find in a luxury car. If accoutrements, gravitas and comfort are the criteria, then the Glide is the motorcycling equivalent of the Starship Enterprise. Not one for puerile acceleration, it responds well to restraint, and a gradual build-up of momentum. And once you’ve understood how to channel that inertia, then it barrels through with the momentum of a freight train.', 'A long ride like Delhi to Goa is best done placidly. While it’s entirely possible to zip across in three days, our armada never hit warp speed. Four days, and atmospheric stops at Jaipur, Udaipur, Daman, and Pune later, I found myself riding alone on the final stretch down to the western coast.', 'At the first glimpse of the ocean, I stopped, pulled over, and wondered if there was anything else I would rather be doing at that moment. It all came together in that instant: the ride, the motorcycle and the place. Not sure about other directions, but at least this time, I knew what was in store for me, in the direction I nearly didn’t take. Jack figured it out a long time ago. I was surprised, as always, how easy the act of leaving was, and how good it felt. The world was suddenly rich with possibility.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


FoodyBuddy: A virtual buddy for homely food
['Are you a homemaker and a great cook and dream of selling your food? You are looking at expanding your horizons, but don’t want to get into a regular job? Or you are a working person with some great cooking skills and want to sell what you make as a hobby? If you answer to most of these questions is a ‘yes’ then FoodyBuddy may be your answer.', 'It is a mobile App that helps you sell your food to people in your neighbourhood. “People get to consume fresh, authentic home-cooked meals, made people from various walks of life. We have home-makers, working women and even doctors, who want to explore their cooking skills,” says Anup Gopinath, who founded FoodyBuddy with Akil Sethuraman and Rachna Rao.', 'He adds food that is not normally sold is what you get through FoodyBuddy. Be it an authentic Gujarati dal dokli, Rajasthani dal bati, Andhra gattu vankaya or Karnataka’s gojju-avalakki, there are people who sell all these and more, assures Anup.', 'Quality Anup says is always good. “Sellers are never under pressure to sell a certain number of plates. We have people who cook for the joy of it and those who want to make some extra money. We have people, who cook for a family gathering and make a few extra plates that they sell through our App. Even when it comes to food delivery, the customer can either have the food delivered or the seller can request the customer, who invariably is from the neighbourhood, to pick it up from his/her place at a given time. The chefs can also announce their menu the previous day on the app,” explains Anup.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Food is more about emotions than looks’
['Desserts, says Arvind, are more like a luxury product. The creativity, special ingredients, and artistic dimension all go into making it a work of art.', 'Arvind also has many awards to his credit — he was awarded the World Chocolate Master 2014, represented India in “the Star of Chocolate 2016 (held in Rimini, Italy). Besides these he has participated in the “Malaysian Chocolate Master” in 2014 and says he was also one of the key persons involved in the dessert conceptualisation at Fabelle Chocolate Boutique, ITC Hotels. The crown in his chef’s cap is the Young Pastry Chef Award he received in 2013.', 'After years of working “with the best chefs across the globe”, he decided to start his own school, The Whitecaps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Mumbai's 'Maffy's'' review: Straight from the souk
['Marble flooring with intricate geometric inlays inspired by lattice screens that recall Islamic art, fez cap lamps that hang from the ceiling, a live shawarma and ice cream counter, and a tasteful explosion of colours – no this isn’t a souk in the Middle East, but a restaurant in Colaba.', 'The South Mumbai neighbourhood gets a little closer to West Asia with the opening of Maffy’s by Zout Hospitality. Named after a fictional character who travels all around the world from India, the eatery and its décor are inspired by its owner, Mufiz Rakhangi’s travels. Located on the ground floor of the Sea Palace Hotel, Maffy’s is Rakhangi’s first venture in the hospitality business. Amongst Rakhangi’s many family businesses – is the popular food shop Rakhangi General Stores, just off Worli Seaface, medical stores and Rakhangi Gas Service. He also provides liquid nitrogen to several city restaurants, giving him a direct connect with with several chefs and restaurateurs in the city.', 'Artworks of monuments from cities like Luxor and Marrakech adorn the walls of the eatery’s indoor section, the common motif being white birds in flight, representing wanderlust. The restaurant has two al fresco sections, both of which face the sea and one that’s lined by beautiful bougainvillea shrubs, reminding us of European street-side cafes.', 'We browse through the extensive menu designed by chef Nimish Bhatia, while sipping on the flavoured water. Bhatia provides an Indian touch and a contemporary twist to several dishes. For example, the complimentary molecular palate cleanser – Goat Cheese and Mango with Mumbai Chilli Achar. That there is a special focus on different kinds of hummus, 11 in total, with both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options, comes as no surprise. For a sweet taste, try the Red Hummus (₹325) where the classic chickpeas and tahini paste is combined with roasted beetroot which provides a luscious colour, and pearls of pomegranate. The Signature Smoked Hummus with Spicy Shrimps (₹400) needs more prep, as the shrimps are slow-cooked and the hummus tastes of citrus. Maffy’s uses a variety of wood chips to give different smoky profiles to different dishes. What’s unmissable is their lavash or pita bread, both of which are made in-house. The salad section is extensive with loads of options for both vegetarians and meat eaters. There’s Fattoulle (₹325), fattoush and tabouleh spiced with sumac; Bamia Bamia (₹375), a crispy okra salad; or Via Casablanca (₹475), a smoked salmon salad.', 'For some good old fashioned crunch, call for Istanbul Mücver (₹375) which are zucchini fritters made tempura style. For samboosa fans, Maffy’s has different fillings, there’s black chicken (not Kadaknath, the colour is owed to the ingredients, ₹325), duck or salmon. There’s a range of Pita Toasties (₹300 onwards). The vast grilled section offers different meat and veg options. The Moroccan Chermoula Paneer Kabab (₹400) is chargrilled paneer crusted with chermoula; Kabab Kash Kash (₹500) is a delicate mince meat kebab, flavoured with the freshness of parsley, a little pepper and other secret spices. They also have hand-stretched Turkish pizzas (Pide) and Levantine pizzas, tagines, phyllo pockets and arayes (chargrilled sandwiches). For someone who can’t do without a fragrant rice preparation, the Chicken Machboos, a Bahraini rice dish that offers a gamut of sweet (thanks to nuts) and spicy flavours.', 'Save space for dessert, as there are plenty of sweet options. There’s a fresh-churned ice cream stall with options like rose petals and almonds, salted pistachios, caramelised walnuts, and lemon and jasmine sorbet which is an excellent palate cleanser (all at ₹200). No scream for ice cream? Maffy’s will whip up Chocolate Hummus (₹400), Baklawa Lollipops (₹450), Lotus and Almond Mouhalabia and Salted Caramel (₹375), or take your pick from a host of shakes.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


The house for a woke generation
['At the recently concluded India Design ID, an annual luxury design week in New Delhi, ‘Adulting’ — a term used in context of millennials and their inability to perform traditionally adult responsibilities — was the name of one of the four home décor trends of the year. Announced by the paint company Asian Paints, each of these is a package of colours, patterns, material and textures.', 'The predictions for ‘Adulting’ were a sombre ash-and-ivory colour palette with organic-yet-bright coral and lemonade pops, with repurposed wood as the material of choice, telling in its concern for the environment. The highlighted pattern was typography, a nod to how the millennial generation connects with languages and scripts beyond their aspect as a tool of communication. Last year, some of the last of the millennials graduated from college and started work. Presumably by now, they have settled into some form of pay cheque-generating employment — a 9-5 job, a string of freelancing assignments, a start-up, or what have you.', 'But this is a largely mobile generation, valuing experience over older notions of stability. In some industries, they have more market value when they’re moving jobs, and possibly cities, every couple of years, sharpening skills and expanding their network along the way. In others, it’s not the title or the corner-cabin they’re after — it’s the initiatives they start, ideas they put into motion, and the changes they lead.', 'In short, millennials are a self-aware and restless bunch, whose lives have been shaped by global economic downturns, the Internet boom, increased political polemic, and the pin-prick awareness of shifting seasons. And no space reflects their sensibilities better than their home.', 'Kulture Shop, an e-commerce portal for affordable art that was part of the ‘Adulting’ display, exclusively curated graphic art by contemporary artists. Its young team’s sensibilities, claims its website, is shaped by the sharp, yet fun socio-political engagement of the likes of Mario Miranda, and dairy cooperative Amul’s daily advertisements. This is the art that this generation has grown up with, and continues to engage with even today.', 'Likewise, designers in the demographic too are creating home décor that comes from a space of self-expression rather than the perfunctory needs of a market. In fact, they have realised that this niche is their growing market. For instance, the collections at Safomasi, a Delhi-based handprinted textile design and décor studio, result from 33-year-old co-founders Sarah Fotheringham and Maninder Singh’s life of extensive travelling. With words like “wanderlust” or “flâneur” featuring prominently on many a millennial’s social media bio, and with a whole growing crop of travel-and-food bloggers in this generation, being a traveller (as opposed to a tourist) has sealed itself firmly as a millennial activity and/or aspiration. It is this market that Safomasi has — unwittingly at first — tapped into.', 'According to the United Nation’s World Population Prospects: the 2017 Revision, the highest population of millennials globally is in Asia. Specifically, the millennial population in South Asian countries like India, Bangladesh and Pakistan, is high.', 'Tapping into this market, Swedish furniture firm IKEA has been sending out feelers to inform their forthcoming collection, possibly out in 2021, targeting Asian millennials. Akanksha Sharma, the 27-year-old Indian textile designer who the company hired in 2017, recently ran a survey through her Instagram account towards this. “It cannot get more millennial than to do an Instagram-based survey,” Sharma says. “I wanted to know what young people wanted to see in their homes, almost in a way that it didn’t feel like a survey,” she adds.', 'Having recently moved home in Delhi, it’s the idea of space more than furniture that instantly occurs to her when talking of the millennial home. The millennial is looking for private spaces that they would’ve lacked growing up in Indian homes, she says. But they also have the need to connect with the outside. A place like the balcony or terrace — often unthinkingly used as storage or as an area for clotheslines — is perfect as a semi-private space that also lets them connect with nature, giving a fair share of urban-farming millennials space to grow their own greens.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ready for ready to wear!
['Ready for ready to wear!', 'Ready for ready to wear!', 'After nearly 15 years of romance with couture, designer Varun Bahl has now forayed into the ready-to-wear segment. His game-plan, he says, is to reach out to a wider audience. Venturing into the prêt market makes better business sense in line with this.', 'Tapping into the vast middle class market, Bahl will dress up the modern-day woman — one who dresses according to her personality, and not age — with saris, lehengas, kurtis, culottes, and trousers.', 'What was the catalyst for making an advent into prêt?', 'The aim is to reach out to more people than couture can. Couture is always going to be my first love, but this is super exciting. I want more and more people to wear my clothes.', 'How would you describe your collection? How is it different from your couture label?', 'The collection is contemporary Indianwear for the young-in-age and young-at-heart. There are a few evening looks in addition to daily wear. Varun Bahl couture strongly centres around florals. This label also incorporates floral motifs and a lot of nature. There are no straight lines. A line is created by placing a lot of five-petal flowers together. Also, my favourite subject currently is Art Nouveau. We have drawn a lot of curves from architecture and mirror frames and incorporated those in our seams, borders, and embroideries.', 'The idea is to create clothing that’s affordable for all. Our price range starts at ₹5, 000 onwards. We have very attractive price points with premium quality fabrics, and a large selection to choose from. There is hand embroidery on several garments as well as machine work; it depends on the style of the garment. We truly have something for everyone in this new prêt label.', 'On one side we have bridal, while on the other we have prêt. Is this how the market is panning out?', 'In apparel, yes, this is how the market is panning out. Bridal wear is a part of my couture line, while Varun Bahl Prêt is ready-to-wear clothing. Apart from this, I also look into wedding design and decor under my other brand Aurum by Varun Bahl.', 'Tell us more about the work you’re showcasing through this collection.', 'The collection has delicate 3D flower motifs as embellishments, wave-like seams, hems, and appliqué additions. Lazer-cut 3D flowers make for eye-catching details. Micro-floral gingham checks, sinuous, curvy lines, damask and mosaic patterns have all been achieved by tessellating the simple five-petal motif. Also, my signature transparent bombers, embroidered with silk-thread flowers can be used to update any outfit.', 'What else is new in prêt? How are you feeding into it?', 'The big thing in prêt is that couture designers are creating ready-to-wear clothes. They are reaching out to aspiring customers, and are targeting a wider audience.', "In prêt I have played with digital prints, and the 3D embroidery details inspired by my signature five petal flower pattern. But it is all about comfort and simplicity. Even the saris are minimal with ruffle details and soft fabrics. The entire collection is designed as separates, and then styled to achieve easy, 'put-together' looks. This is how stylish women dress today.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Fiction from a small seed of reality
['You had spent five years at a boarding school. To what extent did you draw from your memories, to present that landscape?', 'To write fiction I need a small seed of reality. The story is invented, but crafted within a known world. I’ve known a similar atmosphere, a boarding school run by a monastic order, where there was no conflict at all between the ideals of Brahmacharya and the urgent need to clear engineering entrance exams. But literary memory is highly selective, opportunistic, and sometimes dishonest. What stands out in this novel is the intensely sensory nature of religion. It’s a memory of the spiritual becoming sensory, even erotic. But it’s impossible to say how much of that memory is real, how much of it is art.', 'Did the striking down of Section 377 have an impact on the way the story shaped up?', 'I started writing in 2015 and finished a draft in 2017. The book was in press when section 377 was struck down, and I was intensely aware of it, sharing that great jubilant awareness, but the book would have been the same irrespective of whether or not history took this course. I’ve been living with this story for many years now and it just demanded to be told in a certain way. Even more than section 377, what felt more sharply relevant to this novel was the controversy over the Sabarimala temple — that you can so easily equate women with sex and sexual threat — and that you assume sexual temptation is kept at bay only if you keep (menstruating) women out. Then you’ve sealed the deal for male monastic celibacy. I realised my book enters the same world — but I’ve known and imaginatively relived this world for decades before the debates over celibacy erupted at Sabarimala.', 'Did characters like the teachers Sushant Kane and Kamal Swami develop from people you’ve come across?', 'Kamal Swami is an amalgam of many characters I’ve known. I wanted to create the character of a charismatic monk who’s young, handsome, a magnetic influence on the boys, but one who is perhaps not hostile to unusual relationships between them. Sushant Kane, the rebel teacher, is lightly modelled on someone I knew, but with many layers of imagination.', 'How did you weave in aspects like cricket, religion, homosexuality and class divisions?', 'Bengali middle class life. Cricket matches with Pakistan, and the disturbed relationship with a poor Muslim village outside the walls of the ashram, with which the ashram shares a dark past, are places where the communal tension comes out. It’s often a joke, but always a deadly serious joke.', 'What was your brief to Pinaki De for the cover design and illustration?', 'Pinaki is by far the best designer I’ve worked with for my books, nationally and internationally. He reads the manuscript and then comes up with the design. This design is special. It uses a photograph taken by Arko Patra, and the model is Abhinandan. Both Arko and Abhinandan are part of an iconic LGBT movement in Bengal. They’re based in a more conservative society of suburban Bengal where there is uncertainty about coming out. I applaud their decision to splash oneself boldly on this cover image.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Ready for ready to wear!', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Delhi: 51-year-old Danish national alleges gangrape, 15 detained for questioning
[]


CBI sought part RTI exemption, Govt gave it full
[]


I wonder if I will be able to ever reunite with my husband, my kids. I miss them: Devyani
[]


Arvind Kejriwal leaves his first Janata Darbar midway due to 'stampede-like' situation
[]


State-of-the-art swanky T2 opens at Mumbai airport
[]


Rewind: Five stings that shook India and stung their targets
[]


JandK Legislative Council summons former Army chief Gen V K Singh
[]


In race for PM, Narendra Modi should have quit as Gujarat CM: Raj Thackeray
[]


Coal block allocations could have been done better: Centre admits in SC
[]


Yeddyurappa formally rejoins BJP
[]


City Side: Kejriwal's sting man and Modi bricks removed
[]


Renowned Urdu critic Waris Alvi passes away after prolonged illness
[]


Divyani arrest: After US court's denial, Khobragade's lawyer 'considers' other options
[]


Express 5: Differences crop up over Devyani's plea bargain offer and BJP readies RSS for LS polls
[]


Khobragade arrest: US Judge denies Devyani's request to extend Jan 13 hearing
[]


THE DECENT GUIDE: Five things Aam Aadmi must keep in mind while conducting sting operation
[]


Narendra Modi a monster, Trinamool has pact with him: Buddha
[]


Stung, Congress says Rahul Gandhi does not need 500 crore image makeover
[]


Tiger kills woman in Maharashtra
[]


AAP's graft helpline number to advise callers on conducting sting, catch corrupt
[]


Ramesh slams 'VIP security', says not needed even for PM, Pres
[]


Top Maoist leader, his wife surrender before Andhra Pradesh police
[]


SFI members clash with police in Thiruvananthapuram
[]


In anticipation of shut down, US Embassy had disabled ACSA website days ago
[]


AAP office vandalised over Bhushan''s Kashmir remark
[]


Khobragade's arrest: India asks US embassy to stop commercial activities from Jan 16
[]


Express 5: Gangrape victim's family fights for justice and BJP workers appease Modi in Chandigarh style
[]


Five instances when Arvind Kejriwal found it tough to keep his word
[]


Smoke after brake jam triggers panic on board Shatabdi
[]


Dehradun Express fire: Nine charred to death; Railways orders inquiry
[]


Indian men smoking less but no change in women: Global study
[]


Mukhtar to contest from Ghosi, wife from Varanasi
[]


EC seeks report on Virbhadra Singh, wife's affidavits
[]


To audit or not to: The power discom dispute in court
[]


Need to probe all acquittals, Supreme Court orders states
[]


Will pursue all remedies on Chopper deal issue: AgustaWestland
[]


Congress plans to tell many of its talking heads to go fight elections
[]


Justice Ganguly confirms: My resignation has been accepted
[]


Lack of clarity on 'early marriage' cause for India not sponsoring UN child marriage resolution: MEA
[]


BJP demands withdrawal of all Muzaffarnagar riot cases
[]


Fundamentalist forces a threat to society: Digvijaya Singh
[]


Justice A K Ganguly quits, but says grounds for his removal 'untenable''
[]


Delhi Police claims that those approached by LeT were not UP riot victims
[]


Ganguly keeps away from his office, suspense over resignation continues
[]


City Side: Anandiben husband backs out from joining AAP and Maharashtra plans mega R-Day show
[]


India test-fires nuclear-capable Prithvi-II missile
[]


Visa fraud case: Devyani seeks extension of deadline for indictment
[]


Thane: Shiv Sena member molests party leader's wife, arrested
[]


AAP cracks the whip: Kejriwal govt transfers 800 Delhi Jal Board officials
[]


Express 5: Lashkar approached UP riot victims while IM planned module in Nepal
[]


IM planned to set up module in Nepal, got support of 'like-minded' to aid terror: Yasin
[]


SC orders government to set up green regulator
[]


One more Hindalco coal block under CBI scrutiny
[]


Odisha runner sprints to Jamaica to be trained by Usain Bolt's coach
[]


SC orders govt to set up green regulator, hand over powers
[]


Drug racket kingpin names Punjab minister of involvement in network
[]


No one hurt in AP chemical factory fire
[]


AAP to contest LS polls in 20 states, may field Kumar Vishwas against Rahul Gandhi
[]


Adarsh Scam: HC bench recuses from hearing Society's plea against MoEF order
[]


Dec 16 gangrape: Centre says juvenile can't be tried twice
[]


Forest issues: SC directs Centre to appoint national regulator
[]


Snooping controversy: Gujarat Police refuse to file FIR against Modi, Shah
[]


Court decline maid's plea for right over employer's assets
[]


Bhushan on Kashmir has AAP scrambling for cover - and a clarification
[]


Goa building crash: Rescue ops halted by weak buildings adjacent to fallen structure
[]


Delhi HC opens private firms to audit by CAG
[]


Unauthorised colonies will be regularised in a year: Delhi L-G
[]


City Side: Survey says Kejriwal must accept security while Aam Aadmi returns to politics
[]


Justice Ganguly resigns as chairman of West Bengal Human Rights Commission
[]


Cold wave grips North India; Delhi records worst fog in 4 yrs, air and rail traffic hit
[]


Express 5: India joins elite club and Chhattisgarh DGP seeks land reforms
[]


Mamata calls on Suchitra; docs say actress  improving
[]


Four more bodies identified in Nagaland; Gogoi wants CBI probe
[]


Under pressure, Justice Ganguly mulls resigning as WBHRC chief
[]


Gujarat police registers FIR against Teesta Setalvad, others for breach of trust, cheating
[]


Pawar won't contest Lok Sabha polls, to take RS route
[]


AAP's Rakhi Birla car attacked in Delhi's Mangolpuri area
[]


BJP has solutions to India's problems, wants to work for strength, unity: Modi
[]


5 Indians killed, 2 injured in road accident in Oman
[]


AAP's emergence a warning for all parties: Jairam Ramesh
[]


Lok Sabha polls likely to be held from mid-April in 5-6 phases: EC sources
[]


SP backs withdrawal of charges against accused in Muzaffarnagar riots case
[]


Government to launch internet spy system 'Netra' soon
[]


SIT begins probe into murder of 9 in Nagaland
[]


BJP rules out any tie-up in Odisha for 2014 polls
[]


ISRO launches GSLV D5, India among heavyweights of rocket science
[]


Arun Jaitley attacks Sonia, Rahul on Virbhadra issue
[]


GSLV D5 launch: All you need to know about ISRO's rocket launch mission
[]


Government takes step to put Indian institutes on global list
[]


We will not compromise with those who are corrupt: Arvind Kejriwal
[]


AAP starts membership drive Friday, sets deadline for probable candidates
[]


Shah panel report targets 55 mines of top firms in Odisha
[]


Goa building collapse toll climbs to 15; search on for builder and contractor
[]


Narendra Modi to address rally in Gorakhpur on Jan 23
[]


INS Vikramaditya reaches Indian territory, enters Arabian sea
[]


Railways to safeguard coaches with fire-retardant material
[]


Delhi govt to initiate schemes for labourers, contract workers
[]


Pre-marital sex 'immoral', no religion permits it: Delhi Court
[]


On the slopes of Kashmir, a soldier trains for Olympic medal in Sochi
[]


Helicopter purchase: CBI registers case against Brigadier for fudging trial records
[]


Indian Diplomat Row: Don't screen movies at American Centre without licence, India to US
[]


Outsiders in Kutch's mini-Punjab: Sikh farmers battling for their land
[]


Membership trickle turns flood after Delhi AAPswing
[]


Building collapse: Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar says guilty won't be spared
[]


Indigenous Diabetes-screening strips to cost Rs 4, says  Ghulam Nabi Azad
[]


India just nine-days away from being "polio-free" says Ghulam Nabi Azad
[]


AAP gears for Lok Sabha polls, to contest all seats in Gujarat, Haryana
[]


Goa: 13 dead as under-construction building collapses
[]


Ruling SP men attack staff at two toll plazas in UP
[]


BJP delegation meets parents of gangrape victim
[]


PM asks Asian LNG buyers to come together to demand fair pricing
[]


Inferior coal import scam: CBI registers two cases
[]


CBI books Brigadier in a case offshoot of VVIP copter deal
[]


Reviews: Sholay 3D in theatres, Chinese whispers in the bookshelf
[]


Not arrested in India: says LeT bomb expert Abdul Karim Tunda
[]


Pakistan denies IAF air strike, vows to respond at the time and place of its choosing
['Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would respond to India’s claims of air strikes on targets on its territory.', "A statement from Pakistan’s National Security Committee (NSC) followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'The NSC meeting was attended by Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance and Chief of the Army Staff General Bajwa, among others. Prime Minister Imran Khan has urged people of Pakistan to remain prepared for all eventualities.', 'The government of Pakistan said that they will take domestic and international media to the impact zone that was hit by Indian payloads.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on Balakot terror camp: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pakistan to raise issue of India’s ‘violation’ of LoC at UN, OIC: Report
['Joint session of Parliament to be called to take the the law makers into confidence.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, a media said Tuesday, quoting sources.', 'In a swift and precise air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders.', 'Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi will make contact to raise the issue at international forums, sources added.', 'During the meeting, it was also decided that a joint session will be called to take the Parliament into confidence.', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed the participants of the meeting on the current situation in the wake of Indian air strikes on Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday.', 'Ahead of the meeting, Mr. Qureshi chaired an emergency consultative meeting at the Foreign Office.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strike in Balakot: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


China calls for ‘restraint’ after India’s airstrikes on terror targets in Pakistan
['New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation,” says Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson.', 'Asked to comment on India targeting terrorist camps and not Pakistani military sites, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation”.', 'China has repeatedly placed a “technical hold” on designating JeM head Masood Azhar as an international terrorist by the 1267 committee of the UN Security Council, as demanded by India and other permanent members of the UNSC.', 'He urged both sides to collaborate on fighting terrorism and jointly safeguard the security and stability of South Asia. The Chinese Minister advocated a bilateral engagement between India and Pakistan during a telephonic conversation with his Pakistani counterpart, Shah Mahmood Qureshi.', 'China is expected to further elaborate on its stance on Wednesday, when Mr. Wang meets External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on the sidelines of the foreign ministerial meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) in Wuzhen, East China.', 'The Wuzhen talks will mark the first high-level dialogue between India and China after the Pulwama attack.', 'Russia, led by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, is also expected to weigh in on the post-Pulwama situation between India and Pakistan — both recent members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), founded by Beijing and Moscow, as well as established nuclear powers.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Refrain from going to war, Pak Opposition leader Shehbaz Sharif tells India
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


IAF Balakot air strike: Pakistani villagers say one person wounded in attack
['Pakistani villagers in the Balakot, the area where IAF’s pre-dawn air strike operation against Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camps was held, said they heard four loud bangs in the early hours of Tuesday but reported only one person wounded by bomb shards.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders, officials said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?"]


Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?
["Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Over 40,000 people from 80 countries joined the IS till the fall of the ‘Caliphate’ in 2017. Only a small percentage have returned to the country from where they left.', 'The trajectories of IS foreign affiliates are diverse, according to the report.', 'Several of them were killed in Syria and Iraq; some were executed by IS from within their own ranks; detained by regional authorities; involved in detainee exchanges; repatriated to their home nations; in third-party countries; or whose status is simply unknown.', 'The percentage of women who returned to their countries of departure is minuscule (about 5%).', 'Where were they from?', 'A region-wise break-up shows that about 45% of the IS affiliates were from West Asia and North Africa. About 9% of these affiliates returned to their countries of departure. There were also a large number of them from Europe.', 'About 5,000 affiliates from Russia (including Chechnya and Dagestan) travelled to Syria/ Iraq to join the IS. Only around 8% of them have returned. The scatter plot shows the affiliates from each country as a percentage of total fighters and the percentage of affiliates who returned to their countries of departure.', 'The scatter plot below shows affiliates (as a % of total) on the vertical axis and % of returnees on the horizontal axis. You can use the dropdown to select a country.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


India has committed an aggression and Islamabad has the right to respond, says Pak. Foreign Minister
['Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Tuesday said India had committed an “aggression” by violating the Line of Control (LoC) and that Islamabad had the “right to respond”.', 'Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was chairing an “important meeting” to discuss the situation, sources in Islamabad said.', 'Mr Qureshi said, “First, they committed an aggression against Pakistan today. It is a violation of the LoC. I consider it a violation of the LoC, and Pakistan has the right to give a suitable response in self-defence,” he told reporters after an “emergency meeting” at the Foreign Office (FO).', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed Mr. Khan after the meeting.', "Senator Sherry Rehman, a leading Opposition leader of the Pakistan People's Party, said that “Indian incursion” across the LoC was strategically “ill-advised and tactically pointless. Such moves only ratchet up tensions in a region bristling with anger.", 'Pakistani media has reported that the Government of India staged a symbolic intrusion due to domestic pressure.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Iran’s foreign minister resigns as his nuclear deal teeters
['In this April 18, 2017 file photo, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif speaks to the media in Tbilisi, Georgia.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with.', 'Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif resigned without warning late Monday, offering an “apology” to the nation as the nuclear deal he negotiated with world powers is on the verge of collapse after the US withdrawal from the accord.', 'Mr. Zarif’s resignation, if accepted by Iran’s relatively moderate President Hassan Rouhani, would leave the cleric without one of his main allies in pushing the Islamic Republic toward further negotiations with the West.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with. He likely briefed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei before offering his resignation. Ayatollah Khamenei, who has final say on all state matters, previously backed the American-educated envoy through the nuclear negotiations.', 'The veteran diplomat first hinted at his resignation with a vague Instagram post in which he offered an “apology” for his “inability to continue to his service.” The post included a drawing honoring Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet Muhammad, as Iranians commemorate her birth Tuesday.', 'A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Abbas Mousavi, confirmed to the state-run IRNA news agency minutes later that Mr. Zarif had resigned but gave no reason for his departure.', 'Earlier Monday, Mr. Zarif met with members of the activist group Code Pink in Tehran, smiling as he posed for a photograph with them. However, he was not seen in images later in the day showing Syrian President Bashar Assad meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei and Mr. Rouhani. Iran has been one of Assad’s main supporters during the years-long war in Syria.', 'On Sunday, Mr. Zarif criticised Iranian hard-liners in a speech in Tehran, saying: “We cannot hide behind imperialism’s plot and blame them for our own incapability.” “Independence does not mean isolation from the world,” he said.', 'Analysts say Mr. Rouhani faces growing political pressure from hard-liners within the government as the nuclear deal unravels. Iranian presidents typically see their popularity erode during their second four-year term, but analysts say Mr. Rouhani is particularly vulnerable because of the economic crisis assailing the country’s rial currency, which has hurt ordinary Iranians and emboldened critics to openly call for his ouster.', 'Reaction to Mr. Zarif’s resignation was swift. A prominent reformist lawmaker, Mostafa Kavakebian, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Rouhani should reject Mr. Zarif’s resignation as his departure would only “make enemies of Iran’s dignity happy.” Hassan Mohammadi, a Tehran-based political analyst close to Mr. Rouhani, said he understood it was Mr. Zarif’s third time submitting his resignation in the last year.', 'The son of a wealthy family, Mr. Zarif overcame hardline objections and Western suspicions to strike the accord with world powers that saw Iran promise to limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions.', 'But the deal was later challenged by the administration of President Donald Trump, which pulled America out of the accord. In doing so, Trump also fueled doubts of Iranians still wary of U.S. interests decades after Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution. Zarif himself faced withering criticism at home after he shook hands with President Barack Obama.', 'Meanwhile, officials in the Trump administration have also been pressuring Iran through social media, with one State Department official tweeting an unflattering GIF of Mr. Zarif saying: “How do you know @JZarif is lying? His lips are moving.” Mr. Zarif (59), served as Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007, first under reformist President Mohammad Khatami and then under hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.', 'Mr. Ahmadinejad wanted him replaced, but Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei intervened to keep him in the position for another two years as Iran soon found itself an international pariah over its nuclear program. Iran insisted its atomic program was for peaceful purposes only, while the West feared it could be used to make nuclear weapons.', 'Secret backchannel talks between the United States and Iran in Oman became full-fledged negotiations over its nuclear program. During the talks, Zarif met with then-U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry more than 50 times — something that would have been unimaginable only a few years earlier.', 'Mr. Kerry and Mr. Zarif’s rapport extended beyond just the nuclear negotiations. Mr. Kerry directly reached out to his counterpart in January 2016 to help secure the release within 24 hours of 10 U.S. Navy sailors seized by Iran after they mistakenly entered Iranian territorial waters.', 'Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group and a longtime Iran watcher, described Mr. Zarif’s resignation as a “bolt from the blue” from a diplomat who had served as “the face of Iran” for years. He said that while it was still too early to determine what prompted Mr. Zarif’s resignation, it didn’t necessarily signal a major shift away from the nuclear deal.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Trump and Kim to have dinner before series of official talks
['Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory.', 'The second summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un will begin with an official greeting and a meal the night before a series of official meetings.', 'Mr. Trump is set to arrive late Tuesday in Hanoi, Vietnam, and meet on Wednesday with Vietnam’s president and prime minister ahead of seeing Mr. Kim. The North Korean leader arrived several hours before Mr. Trump.', 'Before leaving Washington, Mr. Trump downplayed expectations for big strides toward denuclearization by North Korea. He told a meeting of governors that denuclearization remains a goal and predicted that Mr. Kim’s country will gain economically.', 'Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory. Their first summit, last year in Singapore, yielded few concrete results.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


America should not give aid to Pakistan until it stops harbouring terrorists: Haley
['Pakistan has a long history of harbouring terrorists and America should not give Islamabad even a dollar until it corrects its behaviour, Indian-American former US envoy to the UN Nikki Haley has said as she praised the Trump administration for wisely restricting financial assistance to the country.', 'Ms. Haley, who has founded a new policy group ‘Stand America Now’ that will focus on how to keep the US safe, strong, and prosperous, wrote in an op-ed that when the US provides aid to nations, “it is more than fair to ask what the U.S. gets in return for our generosity” but instead Pakistan routinely opposed the US position at the UN on several issues.', 'Ms. Haley, who had stepped down as the US envoy to the UN at the end of last year, has previously strongly criticised Pakistan for continuing to harbour terrorists that turn around and kill American soldiers while taking billions of dollars in foreign aid from the US.', 'In an interview to US magazine ‘The Atlantic’ in December, Ms. Haley had said the US did not need to give money to countries that wish harm to America, go behind its back and try and “stop us from doing things”.', 'Last September, the Trump administration cancelled $300 million in military aid to Islamabad for not doing enough against terror groups active on its soil. Mr. Trump had defended his administration’s decision to stop hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Pakistan, saying Islamabad does not do “a damn thing” for the US and its government helped late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden hide near its garrison city of Rawalpindi.', 'Ms. Haley’s new policy group aims to promote public policies that strengthen America’s economy, culture, and national security.', 'The group will provide information to grassroots Americans, to highlight the dangers and the opportunities they face domestically and internationally. It will advocate the policies that strengthen the US at all levels of government and in the broader media and culture.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Mexican President celebrates Oscar for Roma
["Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador gestures during his daily news conference at National Palace in Mexico City, Mexico in this file photo.", 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has congratulated the entire team of the Mexican film “Roma” for winning three Oscars.', 'The week began “with good news”, Mr. Obrador said at a press conference on Monday and hailed the film’s director, Alfonso Cuaron, Efe news reported.', 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'The Mexican President though acknowledged he was yet to see “Roma” and vowed to reach out personally to Cuaron and everyone else involved in the film, which tells the story of an indigenous domestic worker.', 'Shot in black-and-white with dialogue in Spanish and the indigenous Mixtec language, “Roma” was released by streaming service Netflix, not a traditional studio.', 'In five of the last six years, the Oscar for best director has gone to a Mexican.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Indian student dies in pool incident in Rhode Island University
['The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'In a tragic incident, a student from India died at a campus pool in the University of Rhode Island (URI) in the US. Suhail Habeeb, a graduate student in physics from India, died on Sunday following an incident that occurred in a Tootell Physical Education Center pool on the Kingston Campus, the University said.', 'The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'Staff from Campus Recreation, URI Police Department, and URI Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responded to Tootell late afternoon on Sunday. URI Police and EMS were dispatched and arriving units found lifeguards performing CPR on Habeeb. He was transported by EMS to a local hospital where he was later identified and pronounced deceased.', 'The University extended its deepest condolences to Habeeb’s family, friends and colleagues.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Trump Org slams probe; Trump Jr. calls feds ‘Stalinist’
['President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organisation fired back at investigations into its business on Monday, demanding a House panel end its probe because of ethical conflicts.', 'Separately, President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organization said in a letter to the House Judiciary Committee that a lawyer assisting its investigation, Barry Berke, has tainted the panel’s work because he is partner at a law firm that has represented the family company for more than a quarter of a century.', 'The letter to House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler of New York demands the panel cease its investigation and hand over all his emails, text messages and other communication with the committee.', 'The U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan declined to comment. Joseph Stalin led the former Soviet Union from the mid-1920s until 1953.', 'Prosecutors are investigating, among other potential crimes, whether foreigners illegally contributed to inaugural events in 2017.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Half of N.Korea defectors suffered violence, but rights not a top summit issue
['On the top of their agenda is the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, and what concessions the United States might offer in return for North Korea steps.', 'About half of 451 North Korean defectors questioned in a survey endured physical violence at the hands of North Korean authorities, a rights group said on Tuesday, as leader Kim Jong Un prepared to meet U.S. President Donald Trump for a summit.', "U.S. lawmakers called Mr. Kim the “leader of perhaps the world's most repressive regime” on Sunday, but analysts say that as in the leaders' first summit, in Singapore in June, human rights are unlikely to be addressed when they meet this week.", 'Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim are due to meet in the Vietnamese capital on Wednesday and Thursday, eight months after their historic summit, the first between a sitting U.S. president and a North Korean leader.', 'On the top of their agenda is the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, and what concessions the United States might offer in return for North Korea steps.', "North Korea's poor human rights record is not likely to figure prominently.", 'The survey, conducted between 2015 and 2018 and released by Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group, found that three out of four North Korean defectors had, before they fled North Korea, experienced physical violence or the death of close family members by execution or starvation, forced repatriation, arrest or detention.', 'About 48 % of the respondents said they had personally experienced violence perpetrated by the North Korean authorities, including beating, torture, rape and other sexual assault.', 'In a recent interview, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is in Hanoi for the summit, reaffirmed U.S. commitment to speak out and act against human rights violations, including those in North Korea.', 'However, the fact that human rights do not seem to be on the agenda for U.S.-North Korea talks, has drawn notice from around the world.', "U.S. lawmakers also mentioned North Korea's human rights violations in a letter to Trump on Sunday.", 'South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha told the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva “human rights cannot thrive in the absence of peace”.', 'She said progress towards a “nuclear-free Korean peninsula” that had started would have enormous rewards, including an improvement of the human rights situation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Most senior Catholic charged with child sex abuse convicted
['Australian Cardinal George Pell leaves the Melbourne Magistrate Court in Melbourne on May 1, 2018.', 'Richter, Cardinal Pell’s lawyer, had told the jury that the media had portrayed Pell as the “Darth Vader” of the church, referring to the “Star Wars” character.', 'The most senior Catholic cleric ever charged with child sex abuse has been convicted of molesting two choirboys moments after celebrating Mass, dealing a new blow to the Catholic hierarchy’s credibility after a year of global revelations of abuse and cover-up.', 'Cardinal George Pell, Pope Francis’ top financial adviser and the Vatican’s economy minister, bowed his head but then regained his composure as the 12-member jury delivered unanimous verdicts in the Victoria state County Court on Dec. 11 after more than two days of deliberation.', 'The court had until Tuesday forbidden publication of any details about the trial.', 'The convictions were confirmed the same week that Pope Francis concluded his extraordinary summit of Catholic leaders summoned to Rome for a tutorial on preventing clergy sexual abuse and protecting children from predator priests.', 'The jury convicted Pell of abusing two 13-year-old boys whom he had caught swigging sacramental wine in a rear room of Melbourne’s St. Patrick’s Cathedral in late 1996, as hundreds of worshippers were streaming out of Sunday services.', 'Pell, now 77 but 55 at the time, had just been named the most senior Catholic in Australia’s second-largest city, Melbourne.', 'The jury also found Pell guilty of indecently assaulting one of the boys in a corridor more than a month later.', 'Pell had maintained his innocence throughout, describing the accusations as “vile and disgusting conduct” that went against everything he believed in.', 'Both he and Chief Judge Peter Kidd urged the jury of eight men and four women not to punish Pell for all the failings of the Catholic Church.', 'Pell, who walked to and from court throughout his monthlong trial with a crutch under his right arm, was released on bail to undergo surgical knee replacements in Sydney on Dec. 14. Prosecutor Mark Gibson did not oppose bail, saying the surgery would be more easily managed outside the prison system.', 'Judge Kidd warned that the continuing bail was not a sign that the 77-year-old would avoid a prison sentence.', 'The first four offenses occurred at the first or second Solemn Mass that Archbishop Pell celebrated as leader of the magnificent blue-stone century-old cathedral in the center of Melbourne. Pell was wearing his full robes though not his staff or pointed bishops’ hat at the time.', 'The now 34-year-old survivor told the court that Pell orally raped him, then crouched and fondled the complainant’s genitals while masturbating.', 'The other victim died of a heroin overdose in 2014 without ever complaining of the abuse, and even denying to his suspicious mother that he had been molested while he was part of the choir.', 'Neither boy can be identified.', 'More than a month later, the complainant testified that Pell pushed him against a cathedral corridor wall after a mass and squeezed the boy’s genitals painfully before walking away in silence.', 'The complainant testified that he feared that making such accusations against a powerful church man would cost him his place in the choir and with it his scholarship to prestigious St. Kevin’s College.', 'Pell pleaded not guilty to one count of sexual penetration of a child under 16 and four counts of willfully committing an indecent act with or in the presence of a child under 16 in late 1996 and early 1997.', 'Pell did not testify at his trial. But the jury saw a video recording of an interview he gave Australian detectives in Rome in 2016 in which he stridently denied the allegations.', 'Pell grimaced, appeared incredulous, distressed, waved his arms over his head and muttered to himself as the detectives detailed the accusations that his victim had leveled against him a year earlier.', 'Richter, Pell’s lawyer, had told the jury that the media had portrayed Pell as the “Darth Vader” of the church, referring to the “Star Wars” character.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


UK opposition Labour says it will back call for second Brexit referendum
["Britain's opposition Labour Party said on Monday it would back calls for a second referendum on Brexit if parliament rejects its alternative plan for leaving the European Union.", 'With just over a month until Britain is due to leave the bloc on March 29, Prime Minister Theresa May is seeking changes to her exit deal in order to break an impasse in parliament.', "Labour's decision could damage her hopes of winning support for a revised deal in a vote she has promised by March 12, by attracting those who would have backed her agreement to avoid a no-deal exit but who prefer a second referendum.", "Parliament is due to debate and vote on Wednesday on the next steps in Britain's tortuous departure from the EU, and lawmakers are set to put down proposals, or amendments, which could include demanding the exit deal is put to a public vote.", "Labour said it would put forward an amendment calling on the government to adopt its Brexit proposals, including a permanent customs union with the EU and close alignment with the bloc's single market.", "It was not clear whether that support would come at this week's vote in parliament however.", "A proposal by Labour lawmakers Peter Kyle and Phil Wilson that May's deal be put to the public in another referendum will not be put forward for a vote in parliament until May brings her agreement back for approval.", 'Labour said it will also support a bid by its lawmaker Yvette Cooper to give parliament the legal power to force May to seek an extension to the Article 50 negotiating period beyond the exit date currently set down in law -- March 29.', 'Corbyn has been under pressure for some time to support a second referendum. Last week, eight referendum-supporting lawmakers quit the Labour Party, in part owing to frustration over his failure to back another vote.', "The prospect of holding a second vote poses a dilemma for Corbyn; while many of the party's members and supporters fervently back a so-called People's Vote, others simply want Britain to leave the EU as soon as possible.", 'It remains unclear whether there is a majority in parliament in favour of holding another public vote.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


U.K. should hand over Chagos islands to Mauritius: ICJ
['Britain has an obligation to end its administration of the Chagos Archipelago — home to the U.S. military base of Diego Garcia — and complete the process of decolonisation of Mauritius, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague has said in an advisory opinion that is a significant legal victory for Mauritius and other nations, including India, that supported its case.', 'Delivering the opinion, ICJ president Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf said the judges had rejected the contention that the issue did not fall within its jurisdiction because it was a bilateral matter for the two countries, and concluded that the decolonisation of Mauritius was not lawfully completed, as a result of Britain’s continued administration of the Chagos Islands.', 'He found that the continued administration of the territory by the U.K. amounted to a “wrongful act”, which was not consistent with the right to the people of “self determination.” The judges concluded that any detachment of part of a colony had to be based on the “freely expressed and genuine will” of the people.', 'The Chagos Islands are home to the U.S. military base of Diego Garcia, under lease from the United Kingdom since the 1960s.', 'The advisory opinion is unlikely to impact the U.S. military base: even assuming Britain acted on the advisory opinion. “Mauritius is committed to the continued operation of the base in Diego Garcia under a long-term framework, which Mauritius stands ready to enter into with the parties concerned,” Mauritius had said in the UN General Assembly, during the discussions on requesting an ICJ advisory opinion.', 'In his statement, the judge also noted that the original agreement had not allowed for third party involvement in the territory. The base’s construction led to the displacement of some 1,500 people, who have been unable to return to the islands.', 'The case is seen as having far wider ramifications beyond the two parties immediately concerned as it deals with the legacy of colonialism and whether the kind of agreements struck between colonial powers and their colonies in the final stages before independence was granted could really be seen as legitimate, given the imbalance of power involved in the relationship. This has certainly been at the heart of Mauritius’ contention — that the leadership of its independence movement had been corralled into agreeing to the 1965 separation of the islands, fearful that if they did not do so, independence would not be granted.', 'While welcoming the ICJ’s advisory opinion, the U.K. Chagos Support Assoociation – an advocacy group – said that while it was a victory for Mauritius it remained to be seen if it was a victory for the Chagossian people.', 'India too supported Mauritius in its case, with India’s Ambassador to the Hague Venu Rajamony telling the court last year that a historical survey of facts placed the archipelago as part of Mauritian territory. “Regarding the process of decolonisation of Mauritius, it remains incomplete both technically and in substance as long as the Chagos Archipelago continues to be under the colonial control,” he told the court in September last year. Britain says that the islands will be returned to Mauritius when they are no longer needed for defence purposes.', 'Under an agreement struck in 1965, in return for compensation to Mauritius and fishing rights, Britain has maintained control of the islands. It has continued to do so despite efforts by Mauritius to regain control, and UN resolutions requiring it to complete the decolonisation of Mauritius.', 'The ICJ held public hearings in September 2018 in the case after Britain was defeated in its attempt to halt a UN General Assembly resolution calling for the UN’s highest court to delivery an advisory opinion on the issue.', 'In June 2017, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution calling on the ICJ to delivery an advisory opinion on whether the continued administration of the Chagos Archipelago by the United Kingdom following the 1968 decolonisation process of Mauritius was lawful. The UNGA win by Mauritius — against the U.K., and the U.S. — was seen as a major blow to Britain.', 'The court took submissions from other member states, including India, China, Brazil, Australia, Argentina, South Africa, Russia, the United States and France. Opening the case for Mauritius last year, Sir Anerood Jugnauth, the nation’s former President and Prime Minister, who had participated in the 1965 Mauritius Constitutional Conference in London on which talks on the ultimate status of the country were held, said that the process of decolonisation of Mauritius remained “incomplete” because of the “unlawful” detachment of an integral part of the country on the eve of independence. Throughout the periods of Dutch, French and British colonial rule, the archipelago had always been an integral part of Mauritius. He contended that in secret meetings in parallel with the conference the then Premier Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam and colleagues faced “immense pressure” and “duress” to agree to the Chagos islands being detached, with British Prime Minister Harold Wilson making it “abundantly clear” that independence would only be granted if they agreed to the separation.', 'The ICJ, which last week heard from India and Pakistan on the “contentious” case of Kulbushan Jadhav, can also deliver advisory opinions. Unlike the Jadhav case, which is binding and non-appealable, advisory opinions are not binding, though they do carry substantial legal weight and are mostly adhered to. However, there have been several occasions in which they have not been: such as the 2003 advisory opinion which obligated Israel to stop building the wall in the occupied Palestinian territory.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Shutdown observed in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province
['Families of forcefully disappeared persons in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province observed a hartal on Monday, demanding justice for war-time human rights abuses.', 'According to sources in the northern districts, most schools, shops and business establishments were shut, in an act of solidarity with the relatives of missing persons, some of whom have been agitating continuously for two years now in Kilinochchi district.', 'A protester in the Northern Province.', 'The University of Jaffna was also closed, and public transport services came to a halt. Thousands took to the streets, holding placards with messages such as “Where is my son?”, “UN, do not give additional time for Sri Lanka for war crime investigations”, and photographs of their missing relatives. Almost all political parties representing northern Tamils and Muslims extended their support to the rally, local media reports said. The hartal comes just as the 40th session of the UN Human Rights Council begins in Geneva, where a core group of countries, including the U.K., Canada and Germany, will likely put forth a new resolution on promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka. The move is expected to give Sri Lanka more time to fulfil its earlier assurances to the Council.', 'Enforced disappearances has remained one of the most challenging and sensitive issues for the Tamil people since the war ended in 2009. Amnesty International has estimated that at least 60,000 persons have gone missing in the past decades.', 'Following its commitment to the international community, the government set up the Office on Missing Persons (OMP) in 2016, which held wide consultations with families, but campaigners remain sceptical of its ability to bring justice.', 'In September last year, the OMP submitted an interim report to the government with a series of measures for immediate action – ranging from providing financial aid to families and debt relief to expediting prosecutions. While the government reportedly held initial discussions on possible relief, there has been little action in the five months since.', 'According to human rights activist Ruki Fernando, the demand that the UN not give Sri Lanka an extension has stemmed from people’s disappointment over the government’s failure to give them convincing answers in the last three-and-a-half years.', 'The Tamils of the north and east backed the President Maithripala Sirisena-Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe coalition in 2015, significantly boosting their chances in a crucial election.', 'In his view, if the Attorney General filed prosecutions for at least some cases to start with, and if the OMP reported progress on finding the whereabouts of missing persons to their families, it might give the people some reason for hope.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Brexit deadline extension a rational solution: Tusk
['European Council chief Donald Tusk said on Monday that an extension to the March 29 deadline for Britain to leave the EU would be a “rational solution” given the political developments.', 'Mr. Tusk said he had discussed the legal and procedural context of a potential extension during talks on Sunday with British Prime Minister Theresa May on the sidelines of the EU-Arab summit in Egypt’s Sharm el-Sheikh.', "With it “absolutely clear” to him there is no majority in the British Parliament for the current deal, Mr. Tusk said, “we'll face an alternative chaotic Brexit or an extension”.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Zalmay Khalilzad meets Taliban leader
['U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad and right, Taliban leader Mullah Baradar.', 'U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad met with the Taliban’s top political leader in Doha on Monday, in what is believed to be the highest level engagement between the U.S. and the Taliban since the months-long peace push began.', 'Mr. Khalilzad tweeted that he and Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a co-founder of the Islamist movement, had held a “working lunch” ahead of a fresh round of talks with the insurgent group as the U.S. seeks a way out of its longest war.', 'The arrival in Qatar late on Sunday of Mr. Baradar, seen as close to Taliban leader Haibatullah Akhundzada, has helped fuel speculation of a breakthrough.', 'Marathon talks last month saw the two sides walk away with a “draft framework” that included a Taliban vow to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a haven for international terror groups.', 'There was no accord on a U.S. withdrawal or a ceasefire, however, issues which have derailed attempts at peace talks in the past, while the government in Kabul has voiced increasingly loud fears it was being sidelined from the talks. “Arrived in #Doha to meet with a more authoritative Taliban delegation. This could be a significant moment. Appreciate #Qatar for hosting & #Pakistan in facilitating travel. Now the work begins in earnest,” Khalilzad had tweeted.', 'It remained unclear what role Mr. Baradar would have during the talks, but the presence of the influential leader widely believed to carry popular support across the Taliban’s myriad factions set expectations high.', 'Afghan special envoy for peace Mohammad Omar Daudzai also lauded Mr. Baradar’s participation, saying the insurgent leader was known for being “independent” and making “tough decisions”.', 'Mr. Baradar was long considered the number two to Taliban chief Mullah Omar, who died in 2013. Now he is one of several deputies to Mr. Akhundzada.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Juan Guaidó holds meeting with ‘Lima Group’
['Venezuelan Opposition leader Juan Guaidó met with members of a multinational support group in Bogotá on Monday to hammer out a strategy to remove his rival Nicolás Maduro from office. The trip comes after two people were killed and hundreds wounded as Mr. Guaidó‘s supporters clashed with Venezuelan security forces in a failed attempt to cross in truckloads of humanitarian aid from Colombia and Brazil.', 'The European Union condemned Venezuela’s use of violence and armed civilians to block the aid entry, while United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said he was “shocked and saddened” by the civilian deaths. Some 50 countries recognise Mr. Guaidó as Venezuela’s legitimate President.', 'Mr. Guaidó flew to the Colombian capital on Sunday for the meeting with members of the Lima Group — 13 Latin American countries plus Canada that are seeking to resolve Venezuela’s political impasse. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he was confident that “Maduro’s days are numbered,” blaming the border violence on armed civilian loyalists known as “colectivos”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Britain to ban Hezbollah under anti-terror laws
['The ban is subject to a vote in Parliament this week.', 'Britain on Monday said it will ban the political wing of Hezbollah, making membership of the movement or inviting support for it a crime.', 'The decision follows outrage over the display of the Hezbollah flag, which features a Kalashnikov assault rifle, at pro-Palestinian demonstrations in London.', 'The ban is subject to a vote in Parliament this week. Hezbollah is a Shiite militant movement established in 1982 during the Lebanese civil war. Its capture of two Israeli soldiers in 2006 sparked a 34-day war in which 1,200 people were killed.', 'The movement, now a major political party in Lebanon, holds three cabinet posts. “It is clear the distinction between Hezbollah’s military and political wings does not exist,” Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said in Monday’s statement. “This does not change our ongoing commitment to Lebanon, with whom we have a broad and strong relationship,” he said.', 'The government is also banning Ansarul Islam, a jihadist group which emerged near the border between Mali and Burkina Faso in 2016, and the Group to Support Islam and Muslims (JNIM), which has sworn allegiance to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. Britain currently has 74 international terrorist organisations proscribed under the Terrorism Act 2000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


‘Mindset of Indian athletes has changed’
['Charles Borromeo, the 1982 Asian Games 800m gold medallist, on the sidelines of an event here on Monday, said the performance of India’s track and field athletes in the 2018 Asian Games indicates the change in the mindset that they have the capability to win.', 'Reportedly, last year was the first time India’s track and field athletes had gone abroad to train for the Asian Games. They had gone to Thimphu (Bhutan) for high-altitude training.', 'Responding to it, he said there is healthy funding for athletics nowadays which has made it possible.', 'He added that most of the athletes now train abroad in general, and that there is a healthy competition among themselves in each discipline.', 'On looking forward to the Tokyo Olympics, he said, “Throughout 2019, they (the athletes) will be exposed to a lot of international competitions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Hima’s next paper is on Saturday (February 16) and she will come back home from Guwahati on the evening of Friday.']


Kamenskiy shows his class
['No catching him: Sergiy Kamenskiy of Russia was too good for the rest of the 10m air rifle field.', 'World champion Sergiy Kamenskiy of Russia lent an elegant touch of class to take the men’s air rifle gold ahead of the Chinese in the shooting World Cup at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Monday.', 'Brilliance is often a misused word but it fitted nicely for World No. 1 Kamenskiy, the Rio Olympics silver medallist, as he was close to perfection in the climax to clinch the gold 2.4 points ahead of Chinese Liu Yunkun, the qualification topper.', 'Only after taking a 2.9 point lead did the Russian relax a bit, as he delivered a 9.8 on the penultimate shot. There was no catching up, but Liu and fourth-placed Martin Strempfl of Austria had the satisfaction of securing Olympic quota places.', 'Third-placed Chinese Hui Zicheng along with Kamenskiy had won the quota in the World Championship last year.', 'In fact, Kamenskiy had missed the gold by 0.1 point in the rifle 3-position event on Sunday, which saw third-placed Marco De Nicolo of Italy take the second quota place behind champion Istvan Peni of Hungary.', 'The Chinese have already collected four quota places in the current World Cup, to take their tally to 14. India has taken its collection to three, with the quota won by Saurabh Chaudhary in men’s air pistol.', 'Hungary has won two so far here, while Italy, Serbia and Austria have won one each. Two quota places each are available in women’s rifle 3-position and air pistol events on Tuesday.', 'As announced, the rapid fire pistol quota places have been held back to be distributed in the next World Cups, on the direction of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).', 'The Indian challenge fell short in men’s air rifle, as the young Divyansh Singh Panwar shot 627.2 and missed the final by 1.2 points. Ravi Kumar was 0.2 points further away.', 'It was the first competition for Ravi after he had undergone surgery following an injection infection on his hip recently. He missed going for competitive preparation in Europe and was forced to take bed rest for about 20 days, before resuming shooting at the preparatory camp.', 'In men’s 25m rapid fire pistol, Commonwealth Games gold medallist Anish Bhanwala shot 294 out of 300 in the precision phase, to be in third place. The rapid fire section will be shot on Tuesday, followed by the final for the top six.', 'In women’s 50m rifle elimination phase, former World Champion Tejaswini Sawant struggled to 1146 and failed to make the cut. Sunithi Chauhan (1168) and Gaayathri Nithyanandam (1166) made it to the qualification phase.', 'In the MQS section, Kajal Saini (1165) and World record holder Anjum Moudgil (1164) put up a decent performance.', 'Pankaj Kumar 620.9.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sheuli steals the show, bags maiden National crown in 73kg
['Delighted: Papul Changmai of Assam kissing the weights with joy after winning the men’s 81kg gold.', 'Teenage lifter Achinta Sheuli excelled in a strong field of men’s 73kg to bag his maiden National title in convincing fashion at the Railway Indoor Sports Enclave here on Monday.', 'Eighteen-year-old Sheuli, a Khelo India gold medallist last year, lifted a total of 300kg in the National weightlifting championships to underline the promise he holds for the future.', 'Experienced lifters Akshay Gaikwad and M. Rajan’s aggregates of 297kg and 292kg fetched them silver and bronze medals respectively.', 'Sheuli began with a ‘no lift’ for 132kg before doing 135kg in his final snatch attempt.', 'The confident West Bengal boy lifted 161kg in his opening clean and jerk effort and improved it by four kg to assure himself of the gold medal in the second. He could not do 168kg in his concluding try.', 'Commonwealth Games bronze medallist in 69kg Deepak Lather took the fourth place with 291kg.', 'Punam Yadav’s total of 220kg, which was two kg short of her gold medal winning performance in the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, got her the women’s 81kg crown.', 'Punam, who was “let off” by the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) following a written apology for reportedly leaving the National camp without permission last year, had a decisive lead when she registered 99kg in her final snatch attempt. Her closest competitor Seema did 97kg.', 'In clean and jerk, Punam recorded a ‘no lift’ for 121kg in her second try before lifting the same weight successfully in the third.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Joshua-Miller verbal bout gets nasty ahead of their world heavyweight title clash
['Mano A Mano: British boxer Anthony Joshua and American Jarrell Miller give each other the eye at a press conference on Monday.', 'Anthony Joshua has promised Jarrell Miller he will “strip him of his soul” when he defends his world heavyweight titles as he responded to taunts from his US challenger he was a “posh” champion.', 'British boxer Joshua will fight in the United States for the first time when he defends his IBF, WBA and WBO crowns at Madison Square Garden in the challenger’s home city of New York on June 1.', 'It will be a clash between two unbeaten boxers, with Joshua boasting a record of 21 knockouts in 22 wins compared to Miller’s mark of 23-0-1, with 20 KOs.', 'The pair had already held a testy press conference in New York last week, with Miller proclaiming Joshua a “fraud”.', 'Monday’s event was relatively restrained until Miller suggested London’s Joshua had had things “easy”.', 'Former Olympic champion Joshua has largely avoided the kind of ‘trash talk’ common in the promotion of many boxing bouts but he appeared riled on Monday, particularly when Miller said Tyson Fury was now the talk of the British heavyweight scene.', 'Miller, alongside Joshua on a stage at a hotel near London’s Heathrow Airport, said: “I’ve been hearing AJ’s too posh, his nose is up here sometimes.', 'But Joshua insisted he too had known hard times.', 'Last week Brooklyn native Miller, a former kickboxer, was adamant he would stop Joshua in seven rounds, a claim he repeated on Monday.', 'After abandoning plans to fight again at Wembley on April 13, Joshua is now trying to break in on the US market where Deontay Wilder, the WBC heavyweight champion and Fury have held sway since their controversial draw in Los Angeles in December.', 'The 29-year-old Joshua last fought in September at Wembley, stopping Russia’s Alexander Povetkin in seven rounds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


World Cup Shooting: Indians fail to make final of 10m air rifle
['The three Indians in the fray, Divyansh Singh Panwar, Ravi Kumar and Deepak Kumar finished 12th, 14th and 34th respectively at the DR Karni Singh Shooting Range.', 'Indian shooters failed to make the final of the men’s 10m air rifle event of the ISSF World Cup here on Monday.', 'The three Indians in the fray, Divyansh Singh Panwar, Ravi Kumar and Deepak Kumar finished 12th, 14th and 34th respectively at the DR Karni Singh Shooting Range.', 'The failure comes after two successful days in the season-opening International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) World Cup in which Apurvi Chandela, in women’s 10m air rifle, and Saurabh Chaudhary, in men’s 10m air pistol, claimed gold with world records.', 'World Cup medallist Ravi shot 627 in the qualification, Deepak managed 624.3, while Divyansh had 627.2.', 'They will have to wait until the next World Cup to earn their quota places for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games.', 'Even the Hungarian duo of the seasoned Peter Sidi and Istvan Peni, who won gold in the men’s 50m rifle 3 positions on Sunday, could not clear the qualification hurdle.', 'Russia’s Sergey Kamensky won gold in the event with 249.4, Chinese Yukun Liu bagged the silver with 247.0, while Zicheng Hui managed the bronze by shooting 225.9.', 'Yukun Liu topped the qualification and his countryman Zicheng Hui was second among the top eight qualifiers. Martin Strempfl came third.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Triple delight for Saurabh Chaudhary
['Young star: Saurabh Chaudhary asserted his strength of character in an unbelievable final.', 'He is too young to be a monk, but Saurabh Chaudhary can put a monk to shame when it comes to retaining equanimity in an electrifying atmosphere.', 'The 17-year-old Asian Games gold medallist, Youth Olympic champion and World junior champion, Saurabh added another golden leaf to his portfolio by winning the Olympic quota with a golden world record in men’s air pistol on Sunday.', 'In a way, it was one better in the ongoing shooting World Cup at the Dr. Karni Singh Range for the host, after the brilliant gold and world record of Apurvi Chandela in women’s air rifle.', 'Of course, it was no fault of Apurvi that she had won the Olympic quota in the World Championship last year itself, but the pressure to do it at home was very much on the Indian squad.', 'Yet, Saurabh was unwilling to load himself with any pressure.', 'He could execute his technique, unleashing accurate shots much to the jubilation of the packed stands.', 'Saurabh stuck to the basics, qualified with an impressive 587 in the afternoon, before asserting his strength of character in an unbelievable final in which he started with a modest 10.2 and unleashed the next 23 shots like a statue.', 'Saurabh won the gold with 245.0, a world record, bettering his own record, with an improbable 5.7 point margin over Damir Mikec of Serbia who took the other Olympic quota place from the event.', 'In the women’s 25-metre sports pistol event, Manu Bhaker slipped from being in the second place after six series of five shots, to getting eliminated in the fifth place, as she could hit only two out of five targets.', 'Om Prakash Mitharwal 578.', 'Annu Raj Singh 571.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Heart of the matter
['The vibrant audience at The Music Academy was there not for a concert. They were there to listen to scientific talks. In its fourth consecutive year, ‘Science at the Sabha’, is a programme organised by The Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc), Chennai, as part of its outreach activity. It has been held once every year close to the National Science Day which falls on February 28. Last weekend, the audience prepared to listen to four scientists from different disciplines — neuroscience, condensed matter physics, ecology and complexity theory.', 'As a bonus for staying till the end, the audience was given a memento, a dodecahedral calendar. This is a chart paper with a shape printed on it and instructions to cut and paste it. The recipient can create a three dimensional shape with twelve sides, a dodecahedron, out of it. On its faces were printed the year’s calendar.', 'Last year, since the programme fell on February 11, the International Day of Women in Science, the institute wanted to have some related activity. “Our colleague and computer scientist, Ramanujam, suggested that we have a poster exhibition, so we teamed up with The Life of Science to hold one on women’s work in science,” said Raghavan.', 'The exhibition had as its theme, Chennai’s contribution to science and mathematics and public service related to health. Several important people who worked in this category were profiled, such as GN Ramachandran, Suniti Solomon, and CS Seshadri. “The posters brought out the importance of the work of Father Racine, who motivated several people post-Independence to take up science,” said Gautam Menon, co-organiser, who works at the interface of physics and biology, IMSc.', 'The first talk ‘Traffic jams in the brain’ was by Sandhya Koushika, a biologist from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. This was followed by ‘Untwisting twisted matter’, a half-hour exposition on electrons, leading up to how the properties of materials could be exploited in the future, by Vijay Shenoy, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. Harini Nagendra, an ecologist from Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, then gave a talk on Urban Ecology. Sitabhra Sinha from IMSc gave the closing talk on complexity theory, emphasising the importance of getting the right perspective on complex phenomena. Speakers made use of analogies, videos and pictures. Questions from the audience were invited through social media, and as text messages. These were addressed at the end of each talk and at the end of the programme.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Making data secure
['Data security and privacy are the buzzwords of this connected era, where we use the internet for everything from browsing social media sites, checking out cat videos and ordering in food to carrying out key financial transactions via bank transfers.', 'If you are nodding your head at these use cases, setting up a VPN (Virtual Private Network) for your computing needs may not be a bad idea.', 'What is it?', 'How can I get it?', 'Note to self: just learn to use these facilities correctly!', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


KWA Aruvikkara plant to have solar power units
['Rooftop solar power units will be installed atop Kerala Water Authority (KWA) facilities at Aruvikkara as part of the government-run water utility’s plan to turn sunward to slash soaring electricity bills.', 'Solar panels will be installed atop the water purification plants, the recently-completed packaged drinking water unit and other buildings, KWA officials said.', 'A combined rooftop area of 2,000 sq metres is proposed to be covered in Aruvikkara. The 75 MLD (million litres a day) purification plant that is being constructed under the Amrut scheme also will sport the solar units.', 'While the major power-guzzling activity at the KWA facilities - pumping of water - will still depend on the KSEB grid, electricity requirement for operating lights, fans and meeting office requirements will switch over to solar power.', 'Inability to make electricity bill payments on time had transformed KWA into KSEB’s single biggest defaulter. At present, the monthly electricity bill of the KWA runs into a whopping ₹23 crore, more than half its monthly revenue.', 'Recently, the Water Resources Department had announced plans to install solar power units on its own land and that of the Irrigation Department in a bid to cut down dependence on KSEB.', 'On the other hand, KWA is owed ₹300 crore by its own consumers in water bill arrears.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Work of overpass at Muttathara hit
['Work on the overpass along the Kazhakuttam-Karode NH 66 bypass at Muttathara has been hit over the demand by a section of local residents for hassle-free connectivity from the Perunelli-Balavan Nagar Road.', 'The locals are demanding an underpass beneath the upcoming overpass from the Balvaan Nagar Road for smooth passage of the pedestrians and other road users to service road and to Enchakkal side.', 'Following the row over the connectivity, the work on the Kovalam side of the underpass had come to a standstill.', 'The EPC contractor who is executing the Reach I of the bypass upto Mukkola for National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has completed the work of overpass on Eenchakkal side and has given black topping.', 'The NHAI authorities said they cannot succumb to the demands of the local residents as those coming from Balavan Nagar Road can enter the bypass at the end of the overpass, 150 metres away.', 'Similarly, those coming via the bypass through the overpass can make exit at this point and move via service road to Balavan Nagar.', 'The 7.5 metre wide service road is also a two-lane and road users can use it. We can go only as per norms. The work has been stopped by the EPC contractor since January,” the NHAI official said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Cleaning drive of Killi river from today
['The massive one-day cleaning programme as part of the first phase of the city Corporation’s Save Killi River City Mission will be held on Tuesday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.', 'As part of the programme, the 13.5 km stretch of the river that passes through the city, from Vazhayila to Kalladimukham will be cleaned up. As many as 25,000 volunteers are expected to participate in the cleaning drive.', 'Under the Killi River City Mission, 18 ward level organising committees and 67 local implementation committees are functioning.', 'All the sanitation workers of the Corporation as well as officials of the health wing will be part of the cleaning drive.', 'Representatives of various political parties, workers’ unions, residents’ associations, Kudumbashree workers, MGNREGS workers, students, youth organisations, Government employees, NSS volunteers, green army volunteers and others from all walks of life will be part of the drive.', 'A technical committee oversees their functioning. Ministers and MLAs will inaugurate the cleaning campaign at fifteen different locations simultaneously. At Killipalam, Minister for Local Self Governments A.C.Moideen will inaugurate the cleaning campaign, in the presence of Mayor V.K.Prasanth and Standing Committee Chairpersons.', 'Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the clean-up drive near the Maruthunkuzhy bridge. Deputy Speaker V.Sasi will inaugurate it near the Jagathy ground.', 'The other locations are Attukal Padasseri bridge, near Mannammoola, Muttakkadavu in Poojappura, near Manikandeswaram birdge in Nettayam, Thozhuvankodu bridge, Kalady, Aarannur, Kalladimukham, Pangode, Thuruthummoola, Valiyasala and Kaduvettiana in Kowdiar.', 'The city Corporation and the Killi River City Mission will arrange breakfast for those participating in the cleaning. Students from 51 schools will offer ‘Pothichoru’ as lunch to them.', 'After the cleaning drive, a Killi River Master Plan is proposed to be prepared to chalk out the programmes to revive the river and for continued conservation.', 'This Master Plan is proposed to be incorporated into the city’s development plan with an emphasis laid on city’s natural resources.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Hectic activity at Vizhinjam seaport site
['The construction site of the 3.1-km-long breakwater of the Vizhinjam international multi-purpose deepwater seaport project has become a beehive of activities with granite arriving to the project site by sea.', 'The shifting of granite from the vessel MB Propel, that arrived from Mundra port on Saturday night with 30,000 tonnes and is anchored off Vizhinjam, is in full swing.', 'Since Sunday morning, the ship gears (four cranes) are being used to shift granite from the vessel to the barge that has reached from Kollam port with 2,000 tonnes of granite for construction of the Vizhinjam breakwater. With the completion of the shifting of the 6,000 tonnes of granite that arrived in the flat top-barge Tianjin from Thoothukudi, it was also used from Monday to shift granite from the vessel.', 'The multi-port operator, Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd (AVPPL), entrusted by the government with operating the international multi-purpose deepwater seaport project, has deployed earth movers to expedite the shifting of the granite.', 'Using two excavators, granite is being dumped into deep water contours to resume work on the remaining portion of the breakwater.', 'It will take seven days to complete the shifting of the granite from the vessel, sources in the Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd. (VISL) said here.', 'After unloading the granite, Tianjin and MB Propel will proceed to Thoothukudi, 30 hours from Vizhinjam, to ship granite again.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Privatisation of airport opposed
['The world class terminal of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport.', 'When the financial bids were opened in Delhi by the Airports Authority of India on Monday to select the private player for operating, managing and developing Thiruvananthapuram international airport for the next 50 years, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) observed ‘Deception Day’.', 'The CPI(M)-led LDF has announced that a march will be taken to the International airport on February 28, the day when the Letter of Award (LOA) will be handed over by the AAI to the concessionaire, Adani Group, which has emerged as the highest bidder for five non-metro airports.', 'The LDF is on an indefinite stir in front of the domestic terminal here against the move. CPI State Secretary Kanam Rajendran has alleged that the decision overlooking the claims of the State and flouting the rules and assurances given to the State is to help the corporates and part of the move to get financial favours from them for the forthcoming Lok Sabha elections.', 'The Action Council, headed by former Minister and CPI(M) leader M. Vijayakumar, formed to stave off the privatisation move and to retain the premier airport in the public sector is reportedly looking into seeking legal remedy. The Airports Authority Employees Union that is on an indefinite stir is also seeking legal remedy against handing over the airport.', 'Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has taken a tough stance against the privatisation of the AAI-managed airport and has hinted that the path will not be rosy for the concessionaire.', 'All eyes are on whether the government will handover the eight hectares of land from Vallakadavu area for the proposed integrated airport terminal as announced earlier.', 'The Vallakadavu-Vayyamoola Joint Action Council has announced that land cannot be surrendered in view of the Centre’s decision to handover the premier airport to a private player.', 'N. Vikaraman Nair, General Convenor of the council said they are hopeful that the government will not displace the residents again in the name of airport development.', 'The Federation of Residents Association Thiruvananthapuram (FRAT) Chairman, M. S. Venugopal and General Secretary, Pattom Sasidharan Nair has urged those opposing the privatisation to spell out the future plans for the development of the airport if it is retained in the public sector on the lines of CIAL and KIAL as desired by the State.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Snacks sale: Corporation serves notice on multiplexes
['The city Corporation has decided to clamp down on the practice of security staff at multiplexes checking the bags of customers to prevent snacks and beverages from outside being brought in. The State Human Rights Commission Chairman Antony Dominic had intervened in the issue following a complaint.', 'The Corporation has served notices to the theatres asking the owners not to prevent customers from bringing outside food into the theatre.', 'The local body has also demanded that the price list of the snacks and beverages sold in the outlets in the theatres be displayed both in Malayalam and English.', 'Activist Ragam Rahim had filed a complaint with the SHRC after a family was prevented from entering following bag checking.', 'Quite a few theatres in the city check the bags of customers, who are often forced to buy from the outlets at exorbitant prices.', 'Following the Commission’s direction, the city Corporation and the Fort Police had conducted checks at the theatres and submitted a report to the SHRC.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


ISRO to honour ‘Mrinal’ team
['K. Sivan, chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), on Wednesday will honour the team which developed the space agency’s first composite solid propellant ‘Mrinal’ in the 1960s.', 'February 21, 2019, marked the 50th anniversary of the first successful test flight of an RH-75 sounding rocket from Thumba using the in-house developed propellant.', 'Mr. Sivan will inaugurate the colloquium. S. Somanath, director, Vikram Sabhai Space Centre (VSSC), will preside over the function, sources said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Pinarayi to open new KSFDC theatre
['The movie buffs in the city have reason to cheer as they will have one more theatre to choose from, this week onwards.', 'The Kerala State Film Development Corporation’s (KSFDC) theatre equipped with 4K digital production is all set to open. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the theatre, located on the third floor of the KSRTC bus terminus at Thampanoor, on Wednesday at 3 p.m.', 'Minister for Culture A.K.Balan will preside over the function. As a tribute to filmmaker Lenin Rajendran, who passed away last month, the theatre has been named after him. In addition to the 4K-3D digital projection, the theatre also has a Dolby Atmos sound system, which only two other theatres in the city have. The theatre has 150 seats. Lift, canteen, parking and toilet facilities have also been completed. This is the fifth theatre of the KSFDC within the city, in addition to the existing Kairali-Sree-Nila complex and the Kalabhavan theatre. The KSFDC currently has 17 cinema theatres, one preview theatre and three studios across six districts. The State Government has also given nod for five more theatres in various districts, with funding from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIFFB).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Postcard campaign for ‘green’ election
['Political parties may just have one more reason to go green this election as the demand is coming overwhelmingly from young voters.', 'Students across various college campuses in the city are soon launching a ‘postcard campaign’ to demand political parties to stick to biodegradable materials for campaigning. At stake are the votes of these first-time voters.', 'Anchored by the Project Sthithi of the district administration, the campaign is part of various initiatives to ensure a green election. Youngsters who had signed up for the District Collector’s Internship Programme (DCIP), and who took part in various initiatives including flood relief activities, are now part of Project Sthithi.', 'Most of it was online. Students have tagged political leaders in twitter and Facebook, raising the demand for use of biodegradable campaign material. As part of the postcard campaign, each student would write three letters to the State leaders of each of the three major political parties, saying that they won’t vote for their candidates if they use non bio-degradable flex boards and if they cause too much noise pollution during their campaigns,” says G.S.Bharath Govind, Project Head of Sthithi.', 'As part of its initiatives to spread awareness about climate action and the importance of adopting sustainable lifestyle practices, the Project Sthiti will also launch a ‘Buddy Bottle campaign’ in campuses, to promote the use of steel bottles to carry drinking water, instead of plastic pet bottles.', 'District Collector K.Vasuki will launch the campaign at the LBS Institute of Technology for Women on Tuesday.', 'The students will be encouraged to tag their selfies with steel bottles at #mybuddybottle_C5_Sthithi in social media, with the chance to win a surprise gift.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Lake Ford bags The Hindu Young World quiz
['Chief guest and Excise Commissioner Rishiraj Singh with The Hindu Young World Quiz winners Devika P. and Anirudh P. (juniors) of Saraswathi Vidyalaya and Hrishikesh M.K. and Neeraj S. (seniors) of Lake Ford School, Kollam, in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. (right) A section of the audience at the quiz.', 'At the culmination of a thrilling competition, the team comprising Hrishikesh M.K. and Neeraj S. of Lake Ford School, Kollam, emerged victorious in the seniors category, which involved students from Classes VII to IX.', 'The runners-up (in order) were Radhika R. and Rukhiya Shanavas of Holy Angels’ ISC, Nanthancode; Rohan Deepu and Adithyan Praveen of Loyola School; Saraswathy Ashok and Nikhil S. Pillai of Arya Central School; Jacob M. Mathew and Abhay Krishnan of Loyola School; and Shone Kuncheria and Madhav Sreedhar of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya.', 'In the juniors category (Classes IV to VI), the teams of twins Anirudh P. and Devika P. of Saraswathi Vidyalaya came on top.', 'The runners-up (in order) were Kishan Sivadas and Abhinav Hari of Loyola School; Govind Krishnan and Joel Shine of St. Thomas Residential School; Mahadevan P. Nair and George Jose of Christ Nagar HSS; Badarinath Nandan and Adithya Sivaramakrishnan of L’ecole Chempaka; and Aashish and Rohan Skaria of Christ Nagar HSS.', 'The event, powered by Eveready Industries India Private Ltd., saw as many as 191 teams registering in the seniors category and 167 turning up for the juniors category at Hotel Apollo Dimora, the venue of the competition.', 'He emphasised on the need to promote such recreational activities among youngsters.', 'While every child might not secure an A+ or 90% in their academics, they will definitely perform exceedingly well in other avenues such as singing, drawing, quizzing, sports or any other activity, provided they were given the opportunity,” he said.', 'Math IIT was the regional sponsor, UNIBIC the snack partner and Arrow Publications Pvt. Ltd. the knowledge partner of the event.', 'Students of several schools in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta district participated in the competition.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Authorities intensify fire safety drive
['The advent of summer and with it the traditional fire season aggravated by climate change has prompted the Kerala Fire and Rescue Department to initiate a Statewide fire safety drive.', 'The recent fire outbreaks at Brahmapuram, Kanhangad, Malappuram and Wayanad has imbued the authorities with a sense of urgency to crack down on establishments and entities, which cut corners on fire safety.', 'However, the department lacked the teeth to impose fines or penalise offenders and could only at best send a damning report against the violator to the local body or the District Collector.', 'Officers said they resolved to invoke the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to get strict with lawbreakers who compromise on fire-safety.', 'The sweeping drive would initially cover establishments ranging from wayside eateries to five-star hotels and budget stays to high-rise apartments and shopping malls and cinema halls.', 'It would also focus on illegal warehouses and establishments that stock inflammable materials, including plastic and styrofoam, with limited protection against fires. Officers from the Electrical Inspectorate would work in tandem with the fire authorities.', 'The department also requested the government to restore the defunct fire hydrants in Chala Market in Thiruvananthapuram, Broad Way in Kochi and S.M. Street in Kozhikode to replenish their engines while fighting fires. Officials said the startling rise in mercury level in February had caused a corresponding increase in fire incidents.', 'Heaped garbage and piled up plastic litter and urban waste were potent fire safety hazards.', 'The department also moved to procure more hydraulic platforms, highly mobile water mist fire suppression systems, and fire engines kitted out with telescopic ladders to fight fires in high-rises and congested urban neighbourhoods. A recent meeting chaired by Director General, Fire Force, A. Hemachandran, and Director, Technical, A. Prasad, also decided to raise a volunteer rescue force to assist emergency responders.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Free thinking being impeded: Thampu
['Religions are increasingly being used as mediums to choke the spirit of free and rational thinking, Valsan Thampu, former principal of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, says.', 'Speaking at a plenary session on ‘Youth and politics – The way ahead’, at the Kerala Legislative Assembly on Sunday organised in connection with the National Students’ Parliament Kerala – 2019, he raised caution against attempts to stifle the culture of liberal education.', 'Dr. Thampu said higher education was in the midst of serious peril.', 'The greatest atrocity that a political system or a structure of governance can do to a nation, particularly the youngsters, is to choke the culture of thinking critically,” he said.', 'He said that religions had conditioned people into becoming obedient slaves who could not think for themselves, thereby favouring certain political ideologies.', 'Youth leader Kanhaiya Kumar demanded political parties to formulate ‘youth manifestos or charters’, considering the youth population in the country. He also claimed that the country was in the throes of the political crisis that was allegedly marked by a conspiracy to transform participatory democracy into procedural democracy, wherein citizens had less influence in the democratic system.', 'Party politics had evolved into a system in which the common man was just a voter, but could not become a policy maker.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Need for multi-tier system to check political violence
['The recurrence of political murders and the possibility of reprisals have yet again raised the need for having a multi-tier conflict resolution mechanism in the State to nip violence in the bud.', 'Following the murder of two Youth Congress activists in Kasaragod, the UDF and the BJP have turned up their heat on the CPI(M).', 'Despite CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan condemning violence and rejecting the party’s links with the incident, the Opposition has refused to relent.', 'The murder has yet again brought to the fore the need for having a mechanism comprising political leaders, elected representatives, and officials at the district and grassroots levels to prevent such incidents. But compliance with the decisions of such a mechanism is a vexatious issue.', 'Though informal, the primary aim of such a system is to settle local issues, both personal and political among workers and curb violence from flaring up across a district or the State. Having a channel of communication among district and local leaders of all hues is imperative in this case.', 'A meeting of such leaders at regular intervals, or as and when need arises, would help to resolve all disputes. Often the distinction is quite thin and an intervention at the right time could prevent such incidents.', 'Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran placed the onus for the recurrence of violence squarely on the CPI(M) and said there should be a foolproof system to bring the conspirators and perpetrators to book.', 'BJP State spokesperson M.S. Kumar accused the CPI(M) of failing to discharge its role in preventing violence.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


One killed and 15 suffer injuries in Delhi bus accident
['A photo view of the bus accident.', 'A dumper driver was killed and 15 others suffered minor injuries when a low floor DTC bus and dumper collided at the ITO crossing in Central Delhi on Tuesday early morning.', 'Police said the injured dumper driver was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his serious injuries while 15 other passengers in the DTC bus suffered minor injuries.', 'A PCR call was received at around 4 am regarding an accident at ITO red light. A PCR rushed to the spot and found that a dumper coming from ring road and DTC bus of route no. 740 collided at ITO crossing when the traffic signal was on blinker mode. The dumper was coming from Ring Road and bus was going from Anand Vihar to Uttam Nagar when the accident happened.', 'An eyewitness said that due to impact of collision the bus veered off its track and rammed into the railings on median divider crashing into an electricity pole.', 'Police said they are trying locating the owner of dumper to identify the deceased driver. Efforts are being made to clear the crahed vehicles from the crossing to resume traffic.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two men held in Noida for raping woman
['Two men were arrested on Monday morning for allegedly raping a 35-year-old Agra-based woman in a flat inside a gated society in Greater Noida’s Kasna on February 23 night, the police said.', 'The woman was brought to Greater Noida by one of the accused who was her acquiantance.', 'The accused allegedly took the victim to a society in Kasna where they were joined by another man. Both the men then raped the woman.', 'The police said that the woman filed a complaint on Sunday in which she said she knew the accused who had lured her into sightseeing in Agra, but took her to Greater Noida instead.', 'Mr. Kumar also said that a case was registered under IPC Sections 376 D (punishment for gang rape) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) based on the victim’s complaint.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Women’s panel issues notice to Delhi police over safety in east Delhi park
['The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued notice to the Delhi Police after it found anti-social activities taking place in a park in East Delhi, on the second day of the 13-day padyatra launched on Sunday.', 'The women’s commission, in the notice issued, sought information from the police pertaining to the steps taken by the force to ensure proper law and order within and outside the park.', 'Further, the police have been directed to inform the commission about the steps undertaken by the force to ensure that anti-social activities are prevented in the park.', 'Additionally, a separate notice was issued to the Delhi Police over “large scale sale of alcohol and drugs openly” in East Azad Nagar.', 'The “Mahila Suraksha Padyatra” launched by the DCW aims to create awareness on security and safety of women in the Capital. Over the next two days, the march will move towards north east Delhi and Delhi University.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


95-year-old dies day after getting FIR registered
['A 95-year-old man died on Sunday night, a day after he finally got his FIR registered against a BJP leader and four others from Tugalpur village of Knowledge park in Greater Noida for assaulting and conspiring against him in order to illegally obtain his property on January 14.', 'According to the police, Atar Singh died on Sunday night due to prolonged illness. He was cremated on Monday morning .', 'Atar, a resident of Tugalpur village in Greater Noida lived with his brother’s family. His wife died a few years after marriage. He had alleged in his FIR that he was cheated by a BJP leader Teja Gurjar, his younger brother Jay Singh and three others named Parvinder Nagar, Subodh Kumar and Shahabuddin from his village, who all misled him into giving his thumbprint on some papers to transfer his property to Parvinder Nagar.', 'His relatives had informed that he was operated on January 31 for a fracture of hip bone which he had received after being assaulted by the accused on January 14. Since then he had been bedridden. He took his last breath on Sunday night only after getting the FIR registered for which he had been waiting since last one month.', 'Ajay Singh, nephew of the victim said that his uncle died after fighting a battle during his last days. After his death, his family will continue to fight for the justice which he had sought, said Ajay.', 'The allegations were however denied by Mr. Gurjar, who has been a member of BJP since 1991. He said that the victim is known to him, but he didn’t cheat him. It was Atar and his family who cheated him and his brother by selling an already acquired land.', 'Meanwhile, police said that they had recorded the statement of Atar before his death.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Drunk man detained over hoax call
['A drunk man, who had made a call to the control room threatening to blow up the Prime Minister after getting into a fight with his landlord, was detained by the police, officers said on Monday. The call was received at 10.30 p.m. on Sunday from the man, who was a labourer.', 'The caller was detained and jointly interrogated by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell, the Intelligence Bureau and the local police, police said. He was let off after questioning as it was found to be a hoax call. He had liquor following a fight with his landlord and made the call as he was angry, police added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Four injured as bag with firecrackers explodes
['Four persons, including a senior citizen, sustained injuries after a bag full of firecrackers burst during a wedding celebration in Kanjhawala on Sunday night.', 'A senior police officer said that the injured have been identified as Dalbir (39), Kirpal (24), Ramesh (75) and Dhanu (55). While three of them have been discharged after treatment, Dhanu is undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital.', 'The officer said that the incident happened at Assistant Sub Inspector Rajendra’s sons’ wedding. “Both his sons got married on Sunday and during the procession, a few people were bursting firecrackers. One of the crackers dropped inside the bag filled with firecrackers and it burst,” he said.', 'The impact was such that a few windows of the house broke and four persons got injured. The injured were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, but are yet to make any arrests in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


State purpose of issuing LOC against Satish Sana: HC to CBI
['The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the CBI’s stand on whether a businessman against whom a look out circular (LOC) was issued in connection with a corruption case, involving meat exporter Moin Qureshi and the agency’s ex-director A.P. Singh, was required for further investigation.', 'Justice Najmi Waziri also asked the CBI to state the purpose of issuing an LOC against Satish Babu Sana, saying that there cannot be an open LOC like this and the agency has to disclose what it wants to do.', 'The High Court’s order came on a plea by Mr. Sana, seeking the quashing of an LOC issued against him despite the fact that he was appearing before the CBI every time he was summoned for questioning in the case.', 'The court directed Mr. Sana to place on record the details of his unencumbered assets and listed the case for hearing on February 28.', 'Mr. Sana, in his petition, has said that the FIR was lodged on February 17, 2017 and since then he has travelled abroad 15-16 times and returned to India each time.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


2 members of Guddu gang arrested
['The Delhi police arrested two robbers who were involved in 17 cases of robbery and snatching in Dwarka, the police said on Monday.', 'Police said they have arrested two active members of Guddu Gang namely Umesh and Vikky and recovered two country made pistols and four live cartridges from their possession.', 'DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said a police team was formed to prevent armed robberies in the area. . When the team was patrolling on Pankha Road in Bindapur, they noticed a sports bike with two riders without helmet. As they were rash driving, the patrolling team grew suspicious. The officers tried to stop the vehicle, but they attempted to escape. The team immediately overpowered them and one country made pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from their possession. During interrogation, they disclosed that they are members of Guddu Gang.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Transport, infrastructure sectors lagging behind
['The Delhi government’s transport and road infrastructure projects were lagging behind other departments like education and social welfare when it came to meeting targets set by the Outcome Budget 2018-2019, shows the status report presented in the Delhi Assembly on Monday.', 'While presenting the status report of the Outcome Budget 2018-2019 till December 31, 2018, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said most projects were on track but those that were off-track were “largely due to the fact that services are not under the elected government’s control”.', 'In the education sector, the government’s directorates of education, higher education and technical education managed to be on track on 74%, 86% and 79% respectively of their critical indicators.', 'The Directorate of Education (DoE) managed to fill 95% of total nursery seats and has added 301 schools that offer nursery classes in 2018-2019.', 'The report also showed that the target of having an average of 20 functional computers per school was not met.', 'The DoE surpassed its own targets when it came to Class X and Class XII results, with 69% and 90.64% students passing respectively as against targets of 60% and 89%.', 'However, the percentage of students scoring above 33% marks shows that in Class VI, VII and VIII only 46.6%, 53.58% and 57.19% got above 33% as against a target of 70%.', 'The Health Department was on track on 83% of its critical indicators at the end of December.', 'However, one of the government’s flagship projects, the Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics, was far from meeting its target of 530 clinics with only 189 functional.', 'The average number of patients per day per AAMC was 94 as opposed to the target of 130.', 'In terms of infrastructure, the report showed that the strengthening of the Public Works Department’s (PWD) roads that have a right of way less than 30 metres, for which an amount of ₹10,000 lakh had been allocated, could only be furthered by 10%.', 'The percentage of road stretches where construction was completed as per the deadline went from their status of 40% in 2017-2018 to 50% as opposed to the target of 100%.', 'There was zero progress in terms of street-scaping and beautification intended on 22 PWD roads.', 'Not even a single one of 150 LED screens that were to be installed has been materialised.', 'The repair and rehabilitation of bridges and flyovers, for which ₹2,500 lakh had been allocated was not taken up.', 'Meanwhile, the performance of Delhi government’s Transport Department was the lowest with 57% of the indicators being on track. Buses plied by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) saw the average daily ridership go down to 29.91 lakh from 31.03 lakh in 2017-2018.', 'The target was increasing it to 32.93 lakh. The per day earnings of DTC buses went down from ₹5,931 lakh to ₹5,846 lakh.', 'The Transport Department issued 35.38 lakh pollution under control (PUC) certificates up to December 31, 2018, against the target of 51 lakh during the financial year.', 'The number of challans issued by the department for not having valid PUCs during the period was 24,171 as compared to the target of 29,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Only 4 lakh names deleted while updating electoral list, says CEO
['Refuting the allegations of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that over 30 lakh names were deleted from Delhi’s electoral rolls, the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) filed a reply in a court on Monday stating that only 4 lakh voters’ names were deleted while updating the list.', 'Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Samar Vishal took cognisance of the defamation complaint filed against Mr. Kejriwal and others by BJP leader Rajeev Babbar at North Avenue police station.', 'Electoral officer Manoj Kumar, who was representing the CEO of Delhi, submitted his reply in the Patiala House Courts against the claims made by Mr. Kejriwal.', 'The CEO said he has brought the summoned record relating to the procedure of addition and deletion of electors in the electoral rolls pertaining to Assembly constituencies of Delhi.', 'Between January 10, 2018, and January 18, 2019, a total of 2,88,140 names were added, and during the same period 4,07,715 names were deleted.', 'The total numbers of voters in the NCT of Delhi, as per the final roll published on January 18, 2019, is 1,36,95,291 and at the time of final publication on January 10, 2018, the number was 1,38,14,866.', 'The ACMM added that further examination of complainant witness has been deferred.', 'On December 6 last year, Mr. Kejriwal had tweeted: “Not 40k. Total 30 lakh votes deleted. 4 lakh baniyas, 8 lakh muslims, 15 lakh poorvanchalis and 3 lakh rest [sic].” During his campaign, the Chief Minister had accused the BJP of getting the names deleted.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Three of gang involved in phone theft cases arrested
['The Delhi police have busted a gang who used to steal mobile phones from bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village in South Delhi , said the police on Monday.', 'DCP (South West) Devender Arya said three criminals of Sahid Gang identified as Wakas Shahid, Wasim and Naim were arrested by the Safdarjung Enclave Police.', 'Mr. Arya said they were getting numerous complaints of mobile thefts from various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village. A police team was formed to solve the cases. The team got a specific input that the suspects will come to Hauz Khas Village to target people. A vehicle checking was ordered and a car was intercepted in which four persons were sitting.', 'During interrogation, they disclosed that they used to visit various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village on Saturday and Sunday as the frequency of visitors on these days are higher than other days.', 'They target those who are heavily drunk. The accused used to carry a pin in their key rings for opening the SIM and after removal of SIM, they used to destroy it so that no one track them.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Flights diverted as rain lashes Capital
['Rain accompanied by strong winds lashed the city on Monday with some parts of the city experiencing hailstorm as well.', "The maximum temperature was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature settled at 9.2 degrees Celsius which was three degrees below the season's average. The rainfall however, likely to bring the minimum temperature up to 13 degrees Celsius and the maximum is likely to fall to 22.", 'As many as 11 Delhi-bound flights were diverted to Jaipur and Lucknow airports as a result, airport officials said here. “A total of 11 flights have been diverted due to bad weather that has created an air traffic congestion over Delhi airport this evening,” an airport official said.', 'The Met Department said interpretation of numerical model products, satellite information, radar information and analysis of current weather observations are indicating that adverse weather conditions would prevail over north-west India including Delhi-NCR till March 5.', 'The peak activity, the Met department, said will be on February 26 and February 27 and again on March 2 and March 3.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Priya Ramani gets bail in defamation case
['A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to journalist Priya Ramani in the defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar.', 'Since the offence is bailable in nature, Ms. Priya Ramani is admitted to bail subject to furnishing personal bond and surety bond in the sum of ₹10,000 each. Bail bonds furnished, considered and accepted,” the court said in its order.', 'Ms. Ramani moved an application for exemption from personal appearance, which was opposed by the counsel for Mr. Akbar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BJP to begin beneficiary outreach campaign today
['BJP leaders, including Union Ministers, will visit homes of beneficiaries of Modi government’s welfare schemes beginning on Tuesday.', 'They will light lamps at the homes and localitiesof the beneficiaries. BJP national president Amit Shah is slated reach a village in Uttar Pradesh that got electricity connection for the first time, by boat.', 'Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said the drive would be conducted from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 83 location across the Capital.', 'Union Minister Harsh Vardhan will participate at the Keshavpuram district, Vijay Goel at Chandni Chowk and Sadar Bazar, Mr. Tiwari will participate in the programme at Khajuri Chowk.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DoT writes to police over ‘incendiary’ video by Mishra
['The Department of Telecommunications under Ministry of Communications has written a letter to the Delhi police on Monday over the circulation of an “incendiary” video by suspended AAP MLA Kapil Mishra on social media.', 'The letter written to Commissioner of Delhi Police by Ashish Joshi, controller communication, reads that one Kapil Mishra has circulated a “highly incendiary” video provoking people to attack some citizens.', 'Mr. Joshi said he had seen the video on Twitter, which was also uploaded on YouTube.', 'The link of video shared on social media by Mr. Mishra was also mentioned in the complaint.', 'The content of the video is self-explanatory and violates the Indian Penal Code and IT Act. The letter has been issued in public interest.', 'The letter has also been marked to Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Vigilance).', 'Delhi police spokesperson Madhur Verma said they have not received any complaint letter in this regard. The necessary action will be taken after receiving a copy of the complaint, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DUTA protests ‘crisis’ in university
['Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) organised a human chain on Monday at the Arts Faculty to highlight the “crisis” in the university. The participants blamed the DU Vice-Chancellor and the MHRD for creating such a situation. The protest was organised ahead of the call for a total strike to be observed between February 27 and March 1.', 'Teachers who participated said that they felt that there was a nexus between the university administration and the MHRD to ensure that the issues remain unresolved as part of the government’s agenda to withdraw funding from higher education.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Case registered on ECI’s plaint on fake news
['The Delhi police have registered a case in connection with fake news regarding online voting of NRIs being circulated online. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has submitted a complaint on Friday.', 'The police said that a case under Sections 505 (1) (b) (with intent to cause fear/alarm to public), 463 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper Use) Act, 2005 has been registered. The case will be investigated by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police.', 'On Friday, the ECI had given a written complaint stating that a WhatsApp message is doing the rounds and it reads: “Those who hold Indian passport can now vote online for 2019 elections. Please register yourself... There is a link... Enroll as NRI voter”. In the complaint, the ECI wrote that the message regarding online voting by NRIs is fake.', 'Earlier this month, a youth from Ranchi was arrested for allegedly sharing a fake schedule of General Elections on his website.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


IIT-D joins hands with UK body to work towards water security
['IIT-Delhi on Monday said it has entered a £20-million international collaboration with UK Research and Innovation to develop new approaches to tackle challenges and barriers to water security and sustainable development.', 'The project is funded by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) through the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). And the new UKRI GCRF Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub is one of the 12 hubs being set up to tackle some of the greatest challenges facing today’s society.', 'Starting in March 2019, the Newcastle University-led GCRF Water Security Hub will run for five years and will bring together research partners from Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, School of Planning and Architecture Delhi and institutes from Colombia, Ethiopia, Malaysia, UK, and the International Water Management Institute.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM’s hunger strike to seek support for statehood: Rai
['Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s indefinite hunger strike from March 1 is aimed at gathering support for AAP’s campaign for Delhi’s statehood and not for any action by the Centre, said AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai on Monday.', 'On Monday, Mr. Rai said Mr. Kejriwal would carry out his hunger strike to “organise” Delhiites in support of the demand for statehood.', 'The AAP national convener had announced while speaking in the Delhi Assembly on February 23 that he would start an indefinite hunger strike to push for the status of a full state for Delhi. He had said AAP would also launch a “movement” for the same.', 'Mr. Rai also wrote to Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari and Delhi Congress president Sheila Dikshit to ask them about their parties’ stand on the issue of full statehood.', 'Mr. Rai said both the BJP and the Congress had supported the demand for statehood for Delhi in the past but were now opposed to it.', 'He asked the BJP and Congress leaders to answer whether becoming a full state would be beneficial for Delhi or not. When asked where Mr. Kejriwal’s dharna would take place, Mr. Rai said the location would be announced soon.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Tharoor gets permission to travel to Saudi Arabia
['A Delhi court on Monday allowed Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, accused in a case related to death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar, to travel to Saudi Arabia from February 28 to March 4 for attending a seminar.', 'Special CBI Judge Arun Bhardwaj permitted Mr. Tharoor noting that he was given permission to travel abroad earlier and had abided by the terms and conditions of the court. It also noted that another court had already given him permission to travel to UAE, Qatar and Bahrain.', 'He told the court that he has always abided by the terms and conditions and has never violated them in any manner.', 'However, Delhi Police opposed his plea saying that invites are to be cross-checked for their veracity by communicating with the organisers. It said the trial in Pushkar’s death case is in the initial stage and Tharoor has property and other interests abroad and may settle there to evade the trial.', 'The court had earlier adjourned to March 7 the hearing in the case against Mr. Tharoor. The court had on February 4 sent the case to Sessions Court for further proceedings since the offence under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC was triable by a sessions judge. Mr. Tharoor has been charged under Sections 498-A and 306 of the IPC, but has not been arrested in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Draft policy over enhancing ‘walkability’ gets DDA nod
['Outside Nehru Place metro station in the Capital.', 'The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Monday approved a draft policy to enhance “walkability” in the national capital.', 'The proposal was approved at the meeting chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal who is also the DDA Chairman. The draft policy will now be placed in the public domain to invite suggestions and comments from stakeholders.', 'The draft policy includes strengthening of existing pedestrian infrastructure in areas where it is inadequate and development in areas where it is not presently available, said a DDA official.', 'Seventeen sites have been identified by the urban body which will be taken up on a “pilot basis”.', 'The sites identified include the ITO junction, Delhi University (North and South Campuses), all ISBTs, Nehru Place, Bhikaji Cama Place, Lajpat Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Old and New Delhi Railway Stations, among others. Additionally, provision for “street furniture” like benches and other seating, garbage receptacles, signage providing information regarding directions and location of various public utilities, have been included in the draft policy.', 'Further, the urban body added that the area-level improvement and provision of pedestrian infrastructure in the draft policy was formulated by taking into account suggestions from the Delhi government, DMRC and the civic bodies.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Petition in High Court seeks screen doors at all metro stations
['The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, the city government and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on a petition to install screen doors on all metro station platforms to avoid incidents of commuters falling on the tracks.', 'A Bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice V.K. Rao was hearing a petition by Hussain Mueen Farooq, who claims to be a social activist.', 'The plea sought installation of screen doors on all station platforms to ensure people do not fall on the tracks, either by accident or deliberately to commit suicide.', 'A screen door is a continuous connected barrier preventing passengers from moving close to the edge of the platform. It opens only after the doors of the train open or simultaneously.', 'The petition said that screen doors on platforms are a feature of stations on the Airport Express line and some select stations on other lines.', 'The petition has also pointed out that since the beginning of operations in 2002, the DMRC did not have a single Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) as required under the Delhi Metro Railway (Operation And Maintenance) Act.', 'The primary function of the CMRS is to inspect the metro railway with a view to determine whether it is fit to be opened for carrying passengers.', 'The plea has also sought that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation submit a separate and detailed annual report about its operations before the Parliament.', 'The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on July 25.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


L-G directs authorities to dispose waste in a scientific manner
['Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal chairs a meeting on air pollution in the city, on Monday.', 'Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting on air pollution, focusing on waste dumping from construction and demolition works in nallahs and water bodies, here on Monday.', 'Mr. Baijal chaired the meeting, convened by EPCA Chairman Bhure Lal, focusing on the dumping of such waste in drains which chokes, stagnates and hinders their flow resulting in “severe environmental damage”.', 'According to the statement, Mr. Bhure further brought to Mr. Baijal’s notice that gases from such stagnating dirty water were “causing harm to human health” in addition to apprising him further that entire NCR region was “dotted by construction and demolition waste and plastic waste mountains” which were responsible for deterioration not only in the air quality but also adversely affect underground water quality. The meeting was also attended by Delhi Environment and Forest Minster Imran Hussain, Secretary, Environment, North Corporation Commissioner, EDMC Commissioner, DJB CEO and other senior officers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.', 'Septage disposal in drains, the statement said, was a “major threat to these natural drains” and Mr. Baijal was informed that the Department had gotten a study conducted from Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) regarding the usage of dredged soil or silt removed from drains.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Submit compliance report on restoration of waterbodies: NGT
['The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana government to furnish a compliance report on the protection of over 1,200 waterbodies in the State within three weeks.', 'Earlier, the green panel had directed the State government to assign unique identification numbers to the 123 waterbodies in Gurugram and Faridabad within three months.', 'The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority was directed to undertake the process of identification and restoration of waterbodies that are under the State government’s possession.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Outcome budget lacks transparency, says BJP
['Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Vijender Gupta on Monday alleged that the outcome budget presented by the Delhi government was “driven by narrow political considerations”.', 'Mr. Gupta alleged that there was “no impartial and independent assessment” conducted by an outside agency in relation to the exercise which, he argued, “lacked trust, honesty and transparency”.', 'He said that while the energy sector spent 0.82%, tourism spent 0.7%, Food and civil supplies 13.89% and housing 10.22%. “It shows the ‘efficiency’ of the government which it sought to hide,” Mr. Gupta added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Appointment of notaries: govt pulled up for delay
['The Delhi High Court on Monday pulled up the city government for delaying the appointment of notaries due to which the people were suffering as they were not able to avail of facilities for which notarised affidavits were required.', 'A Bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice V.K. Rao directed the Delhi government to notify the notaries who have been approved for appointment within 10 days, failing which coercive action would be taken by the court against the officials concerned.', 'The High Court listed the case for further hearing on March 14.', 'Notaries are persons licensed by the government to witness signatures on documents.', 'The High Court had in February last year directed the government to take prompt steps to rectify the problem.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


L-G running ‘circus’ of transfer, posting of officers, says Sisodia
['Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia at Vidhan Sabha in New Delhi on Monday.', 'Presenting the “report card of not just the Lieutenant-Governor but Prime Minister Narendra Modi too”, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told the Delhi Assembly on Monday that Raj Niwas was “running a circus of transfer and posting of officers” since it controlled services.', 'Mr. Sisidia, also the Finance Minister, presented the status report of the Delhi government’s Outcome Budget 2018-2019 in the House on Monday.', 'He then like last year gave the House the “report card” of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal as well.', 'He said the L-G had “shuffled officers like a pack of playing cards”.', 'The Minister said there had been seven Principal Secretaries of the Environment Department in the past two-and-a-half years. Similarly, the Urban Development Department had seen eight Principal Secretaries, he said.', 'He added that a large number of vacancies in the government were not being filled by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB), which answers to the L-G and not the elected government.', 'The AAP government and the Centre have been fighting a legal battle over who controls services in Delhi since the Centre put out a notification in May 2015 saying that services would also be under its control, in addition to law and order, police and land.', 'A two-judge Bench of the Supreme Court hearing the matter had sent the issue to a three-judge Bench on February 14.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


EDMC condemns CM’s hunger strike plan
['A resolution condemning Chief Minister Arvind Kejirwal’s plan to go on an indefinite hunger strike to demand full statehood for Delhi was passed on Monday in a House meeting of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), amid protests by AAP councillors.', 'The resolution stated that the government was trying to mislead the ‘innocent’ public with a political stunt. In this regard, it made note of the recent Supreme Court judgment, which had clarified the distribution of powers between the State government and the L-G, that it said, AAP was violating.', 'Denouncing the move, it also said that Mr. Kejirwal “did not have a right” to go on a hunger strike when he had not used the powers available to him to fulfil various promises made by the government.', 'As the motion was being passed, AAP councillors raised slogans, while the ones sitting in the well of the House protested suspension of councillors. Other AAP councillors raised slogans for Statehood outside the EDMC’s headquarters in Patparganj.', 'The house meeting also witnessed heavy police presence following scuffles in the previous House meeting, when the Mayor had called the police to have sloganeering councillors removed from the premises.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Cong poll campaign will be based on truth: Dikshit
['DPCC president Sheila Dikshit on Monday said that the Delhi Congress’ election campaign will be based on truth and honesty, and will expose the lies of the Aam Aadmi Pary and the hollow promises of the BJP.', 'She appealed to the Congress workers to mount an aggressive campaign to defeat the BJP in the Lok Sabha elections by baring before the people the lies and hollow promises of the BJP and the AAP governments.', 'Ms. Dikshit was speaking after a meeting of the Election Campaign Committee of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee for Lok Sabha election.', 'At the meeting, Ms. Dikshit said that the campaign committee for the Lok Sabha elections will also be constituted at the District and Assembly levels so that more and more Congress workers would be associated with the campaign committees to raise local issues and connect with the problems of the common people.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Properties sealed in north Delhi
['Up to 13 properties in Civil Lines zone were sealed for ‘misuse’ by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation following orders of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, the civic body said on Monday.', 'While five properties were sealed in Malka Ganj on Monday, eight properties in Vijay Nagar were sealed on February 22. The properties were sealed with help of the police for misuse “in the shape of commercial activities carried out in violation of the provisions of the lease deed”, the corporation said. Sealing was undertaken on ground floors of all the properties. The corporation also said that action could not be taken on remaining properties in the area due to alleged resistance from local leaders, residents and the municipal councillor in the area.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DDA to launch housing scheme next month
['The Delhi Development Authority will launch the Housing Scheme 2019 by March, with over 10,000 flats on offer, said a senior DDA official on Monday.', 'The online applications for the housing scheme will begin by March 15, said the official.', 'Under this year’s scheme, over 900 EWS (economically weaker section) flats are on offer in Narela apart from 8,383 LIG (low-income group) flats in Narela and Vasant Kunj and over 570 MIG (middle-income group) flats in Vasant Kunj.', 'Additionally, 448 HIG (higher-income group) flats will be offered in Vasant Kunj, under the 2019 scheme. All the flats are newly constructed, said the official.', 'Concession for allottees of one-bedroom flats in Dwarka, Rohini, Narela and Siraspur was also approved at the meeting chaired by Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDA Chairman.', 'A proposal to permit allottees of one-bedroom flats in Rohini, Narela, Siraspur and Ramgarh Colony, to apply for adjoining vacant flats, was also placed at the meeting.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two arrested for reporting false cases in Greater Noida
['Two persons were arrested in Greater Noida on Monday for allegedly reporting false cases of car robbery and kidnapping at police emergency number 100, officials said.', 'In the first incident, the accused, identified as Pankaj, informed the police on February 23 about a car robbery, but investigations later revealed that he had lied about the incident, the police said.', 'In the other incident, the accused, identified as Ajay Kumar, on Sunday gave a tip-off to the police about an abduction, but his claim too turned out to be false, a police officer said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Municipal corporations violated procedures during sealing’
['The report of the Assembly’s House Committee on municipal corporations in Delhi, tabled on Monday, stated that the civic bodies have “blatantly violated” directions of the Supreme Court while undertaking sealing of properties under the directions of the court-appointed monitoring committee.', 'The report states that in a majority of cases, no video was recorded by the corporations during surveying or sealing of the premises that were allegedly indulging in misuse. It also said that the stipulations contained in the public notice issued by the Delhi Development Authority in November last year regarding sealing procedures were also not followed in totality and officials of the corporations had carried out sealing of the premises in “an arbitrary manner”.', 'The report also made adverse observations with regard to conversion and parking charges collected by the corporations. The committee has alleged misuse of these charges by the corporations.', 'In its observations, it stated that the local bodies had not provided complete Assembly constituency-wise or market-wise date in the form desired, further stating that “it appears that there is a misuse of conversion/parking charges thus collected and any event of fraud in this regard cannot be ruled out in the absence of information desired.” The committee has recommended that the corporations should recoup “illegal expenditure” of revenue collected on account of conversion and parking charges for other purposes and use this amount for augmenting infrastructure and development of parking sites.', 'It also noted that the South and the East Delhi Municipal Corporations have not received conversion charges collected for their jurisdiction between 2006-2012, prior to the trifurcation of the corporation, from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency. In this regard, the committee has recommended that the north corporation retrieve and proportionately distribute the amount of conversion and parking charge collected during the unified period to the respective corporations and submit an action taken report within a month.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


1984 anti-Sikh riots case: SC judge Justice Sanjiv Khanna recuses himself from hearing Sajjan Kumar’s appeal
['The matter came up for hearing before a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi.', 'The matter came up for hearing before a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi.', 'The case in which Kumar was convicted and sentenced relates to the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment’s Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Gold prices fall on sluggish demand, weak global cues
[]


Gold price declines on sluggish demand, silver up on fresh buying
[]


Gold climbs to near three-week high as stock markets dip
[]


Gold snaps three-day rally, price falls by Rs 130 to Rs 30,360
[]


US gold price futures rally 2 per cent; bargain hunters shop around
[]


Gold futures rise by Rs 246 to Rs 28,664 on global cues
[]


Gold notches biggest annual loss in 32 years
[]


Gold, silver prices remain weak on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Gold price futures down 0.19 pc to Rs 28,509 on global cues
[]


Gold price rises for second day, up Rs 120 to Rs 30,120
[]


Gold price up Rs 100 to Rs 30,000 on fresh stockists buying, global cues
[]


Onion export floor price more than halved to $150 a tonne
[]


Gold price falls Rs 275, dips below Rs 30k level after 4 months
[]


Gold prices rises 0.18 per cent in futures trade
[]


Gold price steady but set for biggest annual loss in 3 decades
[]


Gold, silver prices drop further on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Gold prices fall on stockists selling
[]


Yearender: Gold comes off all-time high, silver declines during 2013
[]


Gold recovers, prices up by Rs 240 to Rs 30,400
[]


Gold heads for biggest annual loss in 32 years
[]


Gold price falls further by Rs 205 to Rs 30,160 in Delhi
[]


Gold, silver prices fall in Mumbai, US Federal Reserve effect seen
[]


Gold price snaps 2-day falling trend in Delhi, up Rs 30 to Rs 30,430
[]


RBI for removal of restrictions on gold import
[]


Gold price falls in Delhi on sell-off by stockists; silver surges Rs 1,000
[]


Nashik farmers halt biz as onion prices drop to Rs 9.5
[]


Gold price rebounds by Rs 230 to to Rs 30,930 in Delhi
[]


Gold price zooms by Rs 425 to Rs 31,150 on frantic buying
[]


Gold price slips Rs 30, silver price jumps Rs 830 on fresh buying, global cues
[]


Gold price steady after 2-day gains, but taper worries linger
[]


Gold price gains Rs 255 on low level buying in Delhi
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues
[]


Gold price bounces back by Rs 450 to Rs 31,250
[]


Smugglers moving gold like narcotics
[]


Indian gold premium hits Rs 29,096, nears record high on strong demand, limited supply
[]


Gold prices steadies near 5-month low, US data eyed
[]


Gold prices hit 5-month low on taper worries
[]


Onion prices drop sharply as late kharif arrivals pick pace
[]


Gold price slips as investors look to US data for stimulus clues
[]


Gold prices extends gains on sustained buying, firm global cues
[]


Gold, silver prices in Delhi fall on stockists selling, global cues
[]


Gold price snaps 2-day hiatus, surges on marriage season demand, global cues
[]


Gold holds near 1-week high, physical demand drops off
[]


Gold price extends losses by Rs 50 to Rs 31,050 on sustained selling
[]


Gold drops 1 per cent as equities gain after Iran deal
[]


Gold jewellery exports fall 6.9 pct in October
[]


Gold futures prices down 0.71 pct on global cues
[]


Gold price plummets Rs 500 to to Rs 31,100 on sluggish demand
[]


Gold price jumps Rs 300 on wedding season buying
[]


Gold remains down to to Rs 30,265 in futures trade on weak global cues
[]


Gold price tumbles by Rs 520 to Rs 31,300
[]


Gold price today rebounded by Rs 320 in Delhi on fresh buying
[]


Gold futures prices recover 0.21 per cent
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues
[]


Gold imports likely to drop 40 pct to 500 tonnes in FY14
[]


Gold price rises further to Rs 31,850 on seasonal demand, silver tumbles
[]


Gold price rises by Rs 105 to Rs 31,825 on seasonal demand
[]


Govt cuts tariff on imported gold for 2nd straight day
[]


World Gold Council: Gold Q4 demand to be lower than same period last year
[]


World Gold Council: Global gold demand falls 21% in Q3 over drop in buying from India
[]


Indian gold demand stays subdued as Indian rupee falls further
[]


Gold, silver imports skyrocket 62 pct to $1.3 bn in October after September fiasco
[]


Gold futures prices recover on short-covering
[]


Silver prices recover in futures trade on short-covering
[]


Gold extends drop as US jobs data spurs taper fears
[]


Gold price falls in Delhi by Rs 150 to Rs 31,250
[]


Gold gains for third day, up Rs 50 to Rs 31,400
[]


Gold price rises by Rs 190 to Rs 31,350 on sustained buying
[]


Gold price ends steady, silver falls in special Diwali trade
[]


Gold price falls Rs 100 to Rs 31,300 on eve of Diwali
[]


Govt cuts import tariff on gold, hikes silver
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues
[]


Gold price extends losses on stockists selling, global cues
[]


Govt hikes tariff value of imported gold to $442 per 10 gram
[]


Gold takes a pause, silver firm-up on speculation
[]


Gold, silver prices fall in Delhi on profit selling, weak global trend
[]


Gold prices hover near five-week high
[]


Gold rush: The yellow metal continues to lure
[]


Dhanteras: Gold price may cross Rs 33,000 level on supply squeeze
[]


Record onion prices: Competition Commission of India officials plan to visit states
[]


Gold, silver prices jump on Diwali buying, global cues
[]


Gold price snaps 2-day rally, prices slip to Rs 32,400
[]


Gold future prices rises to Rs 30,616 on global cues, spot demand
[]


Gold price regains 32-k level on seasonal demand, global cues
[]


Gold future up 0.27 pct on global cue
[]


Gold edges up towards 4-week high, focus on US data
[]


Gold future prices fall 0.22% to on profit booking
[]


Onion price near Rs 100, Congress blames Madhya Pradesh's BJP govt
[]


To check rise in onion prices, govt may ban its export
[]


Silver futures down 0.58 pct on global cues
[]


Gold down in futures trade on weak global cues, profit-booking
[]


Not much of festival season in India as gold runs dry
[]


Gold price reclaims Rs 31,000 mark on festive demand
[]


Gold, silver surge on domestic demand, firm global cues
[]


Gold up in futures trade on Asian cues
[]


Silver rises 1.25 pct in futures trade on global trend
[]


Gold futures rise on Global cues
[]


Lurching gold prices mystify traders, undermine confidence
[]


Gold prices surge by Rs 420 to Rs 31,620
[]


Govt cuts tariff value on imported gold, silver
[]


For shagun: Jewellers to lift ban on gold coins
[]


US shutdown: Gold price falls on prospects of last-minute debt deal
[]


Gold prices surge Rs 650 to Rs 31,200 on seasonal demand
[]


Gold price futures marginally up on global cues
[]


Silver price futures down 0.31 pct on global cues
[]


Gold price recovers on good buying, silver weakens
[]


Gold price tumbles by Rs 460 on sustained selling, weak global cues
[]


Silver futures down 0.68 pc to Rs 49,179
[]


Gold futures down 0.40 pc to Rs 28,540 on weak global cues
[]


Gold price rebounds on festive demand, silver remains weak
[]


Gold price drops close to $1,300 on stronger US dollar, stimulus worries
[]


Gold price plunges by Rs 120 to Rs 30,810
[]


Gold, silver imports plunge sharply to USD 0.8 bn in September
[]


Starved of gold, Indians may import record volumes of silver
[]


India's gold demand to rise by 15% in Q4 2013 to up to 300 ton
[]


India's gold demand in December quarter can jump 15%: WGC
[]


Gold futures up Rs 63 to Rs 29,549 on firm global cues, spot demand
[]


Gold price surges on sustained demand, silver gains
[]


Gold futures price up 0.79 per cent on firm global cues
[]


Gold imports may pick up, touch 725 tonnes in FY'14: Gold Federation
[]


Gold price edges higher at Rs 29,960 on better retail buying
[]


Gold snaps two-day fall, recover Rs 220 on strong global cues
[]


Gold price rises in futures trade on firm global cues
[]


Indian jewellers face long road to export growth
[]


Gold futures price down 0.38 pct on global cues
[]


Gold bides time as US government nears shutdown
[]


Silver futures price down 1.02 pct on weak global cues
[]


Gold futures price down on global cues; shed 0.73 pct
[]


Gold slips from 3-week high, down Rs 315 on profit-selling
[]


Oil prices tumble on concerns over US budget impasse
[]


Gold price jumps Rs 1,000 to three-week high at Rs 31,200, Navratras coming
[]


Gold scales one week high on firm demand, silver also spurts
[]


Bengal teen''s family 'concerned about safety'': Bihar team
[]


HC advocates help AAP membership swell, 15,000 join in Kolkata so far
[]


BJP launches portal for Modi rally registration
[]


Trade unions demand wage hike for workers in tea gardens
[]


Buddha corners Didi over crime against women, development
[]


Narendra Modi a monster, Trinamool has pact with him: Buddha
[]


TMC welcomes Ganguly  resignation, Somnath 'hurt'
[]


Mamata visits Amlashol, first by a CM in 10 years
[]


Parents at Pranab door, Oppn hits the road in city
[]


Gangrape victim inaugurates Nandigram Shaeed Minar
[]


Left Front cries 'war' to end TMC's 'honeymoon period'
[]


Pay Rs 100 to attend Modi's Kolkata rally
[]


Ganguly quits, says grounds for his removal 'untenable'
[]


Commuters bear the brunt of bus strike, govt unmoved on fare hike
[]


Trinamool to recruit 2 IIM interns ahead of LS polls
[]


Centre announces new hospitals, infra upgrade for several others
[]


Only responded to people''s 'sentiments'',  did not interfere in gangrape probe: Nitish
[]


Gangrape victim''s father moves HC for CBI probe
[]


Suchitra Sen partially responds to treatment, meets Mamata
[]


Ganguly mulls quitting as WBHRC chief
[]


TMC slams Oppn for 'demeaning'' Bengal
[]


State Cong passes resolution for Rahul as PM candidate
[]


Vigil stepped up on Indo-Bangla border
[]


Kejriwal sent invite for  IIT-Kharagpur alumni meet
[]


Rape victim''s family to meet President, demand CBI probe
[]


Women''s bodies doubt 'whether family will get justice at all''
[]


Sushil Modi seeks speedy trial 'with due sensitivity''
[]


Inquiry likely against cops
[]


Satyamev Jayate member interviews victim''s family
[]


After Rs 1-lakh ex-gratia, Nitish offers to rehabilitate victim''s family
[]


Chief Secy, cops draw AIDWA flak
[]


Govt says cooperated with victim''s kin, decries politics over dead body
[]


'Juvenile'' among 6 held for rape, 2 others face murder charge
[]


6 Kolkata tourists die in Nepal road mishap
[]


Bengal teen gangraped twice, hounded, and finally set on fire
[]


Cabinet to decide on presidential reference today
[]


It''s CITU vs TMC as Kolkata protests against death of gangrape victim
[]


Woman PDS shop owner killed in Orissa
[]


Union home secy reviews security on Indo-Bangla border
[]


Pvt bus operators demand fare hike, to go on strike on Jan 6
[]


Cops had inputs KLO platoon was in Jalpaiguri, failed to act
[]


Minor who was gangraped twice dies a week after suicide bid
[]


Jalpaiguri blast: KPP top leader arrested
[]


Mitra refuses bus fare hike, warns autorickshaw drivers
[]


Suchitra Sen stable, says hospital
[]


Netaji family urges Mamata to respond to RTI query
[]


AMRI hospital''s Dhakuria unit  reopens two years after fire
[]


Mamata''s 13  parliamentary secys a drain  on exchequer
[]


No data to prove cycling ban will improve traffic: Police
[]


Suchitra Sen is critical
[]


AAP 'units'' mushroom in Kolkata
[]


Conman dupes hotels, runs up bills in lakhs
[]


Govt to send President reference this week for probe
[]


Jalpaiguri blast: Ex-KLO member held, Sec 144 imposed in district
[]


Jalpaiguri blast toll rises to six
[]


All-weather 1-km roads for gram panchayats
[]


NUJS official held for sexually harassing staff
[]


'Police trying to frame KLO''
[]


CM lays foundation stone of St Xavier''s university campus
[]


NIA collects samples, probe focuses on KLO
[]


After 2,200-yr old lion capital damaged  at National Museum, staff try cover-up
[]


For Modi''s Kolkata rally, online booking of seats, entry fee
[]


Six of family found dead at Birbhum guesthouse; cops say suicide pact
[]


Gurung back as GTA chief
[]


5 killed, 9 injured  in Jalpaiguri blast
[]


Mamata strips Partha of industry portfolio
[]


Mamata ministry reshuffle likely today
[]


Ahead of Gurung swearing-in today, bail to Tamang, other GJM men
[]


Mamata''s dept yet to prepare land bank
[]


Do politicians quit on allegations, asks former Bengal Lokayukta
[]


Monk arrested for sexually abusing minor boys
[]


'Gangrape'' victim sets self on fire, critical
[]


Left approaches commissioner against Sunday attack
[]


Youth in state will remain jobless under Mamata regime: Buddha
[]


Mamata likely to shed some depts in Dec 26 reshuffle
[]


Park Street re-run: Minor girl raped by two inside taxi
[]


CPM protests TMC attack on Left rally
[]


Why Partha got Didi stick: No investment in last 18 months
[]


Ganguly took pvt case, NGO paid for Pak trip: Mamata to Pranab
[]


Royal fallout
[]


'Taslima serial blocked on Mamata command''
[]


Ausgram PS in-charge resigns, leaves sans information
[]


12-yr-old raped, rod pushed through her neck
[]


Bengal hasn''t appointed Lokayukta since 2009
[]


Dealing with domestic violence
[]


Mamata''s FB popularity 2nd  to Modi, Keriwal, Raje
[]


First head rolls  after CM review
[]


Cong attacks TMC on women safety
[]


No CAG report for 2 yrs, govt gets Oppn stick
[]


Failed depts face CM flak, 32% growth gets praise
[]


Oppn lashes out at govt for scrapping Taslima serial
[]


Gurung set to return as GTA chief
[]


Taslima''s TV serial postponed after Muslim bodies protest
[]


Rights body awaits action on threat letter
[]


Minority meet held without CM, minister recount achievements
[]


Asking SC for fresh probe would be travesty of justice: Somnath
[]


Presidential Reference: Ball in AG court to work out legalities
[]


Won''t contest elections: Kabir Suman
[]


HC seeks state reply on seizure of Saradha Group properties
[]


Locks on American Consulate General
[]


High Court lawyers march in Justice Ganguly''s support
[]


10 days later, no arrest in Naren Dey assault case
[]


Didi can make do with 'even 1-yr moratorium'' on loan repayment
[]


300 killed in Bangladesh, political scenario polarised: Dhaka University professor
[]


Panchayat Minister asked to be WB brand ambassador
[]


Cabinet okays homes for sex workers,  their daughters
[]


More Cong, GJM leaders defect  to Trinamool
[]


Taslima moves SC, seeks protection from arrest
[]


Kolkata street food vendors face govt heat
[]


Still in denial mode, the ex-judge digs heels in
[]


Special tram rides mark Tagore''s Nobel prize
[]


Dejected Didi
[]


Presidency jail warden show-caused
[]


TMC to contest all LS, Assembly seats in Haryana
[]


After Delhi, it''s Kolkata''s turn now, says AAP
[]


Post Varun offer, Cong and Left try to hook Ganguly for LS polls
[]


Kolkata: 103-year-old Park Mansions wins heritage award for restoration
[]


Saurav Ganguly offered BJP ticket for 2014, yet to decide: Reports
[]


Varavara: Will move against 'fake encounter'' of Kishenji
[]


Short Street case: Sub-Inspector in police custody till Dec 19
[]


Team led by Muslim cleric to tour country to pitch Didi as PM face
[]


Kunal Ghosh gets bail in first case
[]


Cong leader files plea to cancel Kumar bail
[]


Father loses 13-yr-old daughter in  gambling, to marry her off to winner
[]


I'll do what I''ve decided to do: WBHRC chief
[]


Legal migration from Bangladesh on a high
[]


Doctor who treated Kishenji held  for sedition
[]


Let Left leaders meet Ban Ki-moon next on ponzi issue: TMC MP
[]


AAP seeks permission to take out rally
[]


Lawyers burn effigy of Justice Ganguly
[]


Illegal immigrant from Myanmar to be shifted to Delhi''s Tihar jail
[]


Pradeep plays down Cong leaders'' defection to TMC
[]


TMC supports Lokpal Bill
[]


Slain Maoist''s wife to attend convention in Kolkata
[]


HC seeks to know state stand on Siladitya
[]


House passes new anti-ponzi scheme Bill, gives more teeth to courts
[]


Varun confident of BJP''s good show in Bengal
[]


After assault on Left leader, uneasy calm in Bengal town
[]


MiG-21 FL jet, workhorse of the Indian Air Force, flies into history
[]


TMC workers assault FB leader, Left stalls House
[]


Ghost firm claims Rs 5 cr in incentive for exports it never made to Bangladesh
[]


Ganguly won''t resign from WBHRC
[]


Sir, please don''t mock your office, says Derek
[]


'Matter can be taken up if placed before univ council'
[]


55-year-old found dead in house
[]


True test of AAP starts now,  says Smriti Irani
[]


Dad jokes
['Not Getting Wiser to Delhi.', 'The 90-minute solo show is largely about his challenges with parenting two kids. “When you have one child, you become a parent; when you have two, you become a referee,” he says, of the foibles of the trade. Excerpts from an interview.', 'Tell us about your parenting experiences.', 'I have two kids; one is 14 and the other is 13. Parenting has evolved a lot over the last few years. It used to be about keeping a tab on your kid. Today it has become about micro-managing your kid. Our report cards used to be half-a-page long. Now we have six-page report cards. When we were growing up we were conscious of what we did in front of our parents. Now we are conscious of what we do in front of our kids.', 'What are the advantages of having kids with a small age gap?', 'We are happy. We could change diapers with closed eyes. We didn’t need to turn on the lights. If there is a considerable age gap, parenting becomes tougher because you have to relearn the entire process. You have to develop patience all over again.', 'What would you say about the Delhi audience?', 'The Delhi audience has evolved. It is not as cosmopolitan as Mumbai, but you are tuned to different kinds of comedy. When you come in for a show you no longer have to start with slapstick jokes. I am from Delhi, so I am always confident about performing here. In fact, I stop mid-way through a joke and let the audience complete it. Delhi has a thinking audience now.', 'There are so many stand-up comedians these days...', 'There is much more variety now. We are not competing in the same space. We cater to different kinds of audiences. Looking at the size of the Indian population, there is enough work for everybody. My audience starts from tier-2 cities, from 30 years onwards. From the beginning, I have been conscious of the language I use, so people are okay bringing their parents along. This works very well for me.', 'Did the Netflix show bring you a different kind of audience?', 'In India, its reach is limited to niche corners. What it did was, it added to my international audience. I am getting a lot more shows. My US tour is still three months away, but in most of the cities, we are already sold out.', 'You don’t comment on political issues...', 'Most of my time is spent with my kids, attending their parent-teacher meetings, taking care of the house and the like. So my stories are about what happens with us every day. However, I have commented on issues like demonetisation, because it affected me: my wife would frequently send me to the ATM nearby.', 'Do you sometimes fear that one day you will run out of jokes?', 'That is a constant fear: that you’ve exhausted your best material. You question whether you have the capacity left to bring new insight. I usually run my news jokes through comedian friends like Niti Palta. My wife also gives me feedback.', 'What is more important: content or style?', 'It should be a combination of both, 50:50. If you have great content, but you do not deliver it properly, people don’t remember. If you have too much style, but no content, you end up being a slapstick comedian.', 'Amit Tandon will perform at Siri Fort Auditorium, Saturday, 8.p.m.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


A song and dance of it
['Prema Rangachary was up at 5.00 am. The guests had started arriving. Dancers. Singers. Organisers from Chennai. Jutu, the school puppy, welcomed guests with what she believed was a fierce “don’t-move” growl. She was greeted with laughter and lots of petting.', 'This was the third edition of Svanubhava to be held in Vidya Vanam school in Anaikatti, 32 km from Coimbatore. On the morning of February 21, it felt less like a school; more like a family wedding.', 'Kali Veerapathiran’s troupe showcased the link between folk and classical dance forms. Bharatanatyam and Oyilattam; Kuchupudi and Karagattam; Odissi and Devarattam; Kathak and Thappattam. The performance was electrifying. For 15 minutes after the show, Kali was mobbed by selfie and photo requests.', 'Shivaji Rao’s troupe also left the kids gasping. The tricks — some daring, some deadly — probably resulted in a youthful comment on the feedback board outside the dining hall: “venom”. The rest appreciated the line-up, and children and visitors wrote with coloured pens, in beautiful cursive.', 'Bharathi Thirumagan’s Villupaattu group had the children clapping enthusiastically in accompaniment, often drowning the percussionists on stage. Her easy humour and rapport with her son who also sang alongside her were big hits.', 'The Badaga dance by Mahalinga Troupe got a rousing reception. The movements of the five male dancers, all dressed in white, were graceful and simple. The instruments — drums, rattle, trumpet and clarinet — cheerful and energetic. The troupe then invited the kids to dance along if they wished. The whole ‘floor’ came alive with hundreds of children dancing in circles, laughing, clapping and it felt like the FDFS of a Rajini movie.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


An action-packed weekend
['Friends and fun are synonymous with weekends. One such fun event to be held this weekend brings some new and old friends of theatre and performing arts to add more vibrancy to the stage. The two-day Hyderabad Theatre Weekend at Nritya Forum for Performing Arts is a laudable attempt to strengthen the community and bring members on a common platform.', 'The two-day weekend is divided into different sessions with a masterclass by Subhash Gupta. If you have been showing off your acting skills to friends, the improv theatre is just right for you to display your acting prowess.', 'While the sessions and workshops are free, the plays are ticketed events.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.']


8-foot-long python rescued; released in forest
['Forest personnel attached to Ambasamudram Range of Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve released an 8-foot-long python, which was rescued at Kallidaikurichi on Monday, in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday.', 'According to Forester K. Murugesan, Fire and Rescue Services personnel received a call from the public on Monday evening about a python slithering around Selva Vinayagar Temple at Kallidaikurichi. Immediately, the Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and caught the reptile.', 'They handed it over to the forest personnel, who released it in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday even as a group of tourists from Chennai, who had come to Manimuthar Falls, were filming it from a distance.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Assam spurious liquor death toll mounts to 158
['The death toll in the Assam hooch tragedy rose to 158 on Tuesday while more than 300 people are still receiving treatment at hospitals in Jorhat and Golaghat districts, a health department official said.', 'A man undergoing treatment died on Tuesday at the Golaghat Civil Hospital, taking the toll in the district to 56. More than 50 people are still under care in the hospital, the official said.', 'In Jorhat district, 78 people were recorded to have died at Jorhat Medical College Hospital and another 20 were brought dead, while 260 are undergoing treatment, the official said. In Titabor sub-divisional hospital of Jorhat district, four persons had died so far, he added.', 'As many as 22 people have been arrested in connection with the hooch tragedy in Golaghat and Jorhat districts, police said.', 'Following Excise Minister Parimal Suklabaidya’s directions, the Excise department has launched a crackdown on sale and production of illicit liquor in both the districts as well as across the State to prevent recurrence of such tragedies in the future.', 'The State government has also banned the sale of ‘lali gur’ or red molasses used in production of country liquor.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Shifting of base camp improves water quality
['Sabarimala has started yielding positive results with the shifting of the pilgrims’ base camp to Nilackal during the just-concluded pilgrim season. At least, this is what a study conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) indicates.', 'The study report submitted to the government by PCB environmental engineer Alexander George said that the faecal coliform count in the Pampa waters had come down drastically to 56,000 per 100 ml of water on the last day of the 41-day Mandalam pilgrim season compared to its previous year’s count of 4,00,000.', 'However, the coliform count had gone up to 60,500 on the last day of the Makaravilaku pilgrim season on January 19 due to drastic depletion of the water level in the Pampa.', 'Interestingly, the faecal coliform count in the Pampa-Triveni and in the downstream of Njunangar stream was only 1,600 and 1,400 respectively on November 30, 2018. This had gone up to 42,000 and 60,500 by the last day of the pilgrim season in January.', 'According to Mr, George, denial of vehicle parking facility at Pampa-Triveni, Pampa-hilltop and Chakkupalam were positive steps leading to lesser pollution of the Pampa. The Nilackal-Pampa forest route too was comparatively clean as private vehicles were not allowed beyond Nilackal.', 'The report said that the working of the modern sewage treatment plant (STP) at the Sannidhanam was satisfactory. It also lauded the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) for properly maintaining the sewage network system.', 'Mr. George said disposal of food waste had been a problem as it attracted wild animals to the area on many occasions. Absence of biomedical waste disposal facility at the hospitals and other healthcare centres was another problem to be addressed at the earliest, he said.', 'He said capacity augmentation of the STP at Pampa to 10 mld capacity and setting up of another 10 mld STP at Nilackal had become a necessity. Mr. George said permanent toilet complexes were a better option than bio-toilets at Nilackal and Pampa to check open defecation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


SC posts Rafale reviews for hearing in open court
['A Rafale jet performing, during the AERO INDIA 2019 at IAF station Yelahanka, in Bengaluru.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error.', 'A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi on Tuesday posted the review petitions filed in the Rafale case against the December 14 judgment for open court hearing.', 'The petitioners contend the judgment based on a hypothetical CAG report was not merely a “clerical or arithmetical slip” but a substantial error. They want a “recall” of the verdict. The petitioners said the CAG was an independent constitutional body accountable only to the Parliament.', 'The petitions argue that the government’s claim that the CAG’s final report on Rafale would be in a redacted form was simply untrue. In fact, the government cannot dictate to the CAG what should or should not be redacted.', 'The petitioners has also questioned the judgment’s dismissal of lack of sovereign guarantee from the French government’s side as a “minor deviation”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


UDF talks on seat-sharing inconclusive
['With some of the partners in the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) sticking firmly to their demand for more seats, the first round of seat-sharing talks ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha elections remained inconclusive. But Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who spoke to the press after day-long talks at the Ernakulam Guest House, said the talks were friendly and peaceful.', 'He said the Kollam seat was being given to the RSP, which will decide the candidate to contest for the seat.', 'Mr. Chennithala said that both the IUML and Kerala Congress (Mani) had demanded one more seat each. The KC(M) demand will be discussed on March 3 in Ernakulam, while the IUML demand will be addressed at the Kozhikode meeting on March 1. Mr. Ramachandran will be present at both the discussions.', 'The IUML was represented by P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP; K.P.A. Majeed and M.K. Muneer. Mr. Kunhalikutty said at the end of their meeting with the Congress leadership that Tuesday’s was only a preliminary round of discussion and the issues raised at today’s meeting would be discussed more elaborately.', 'K.M. Mani, Jose K. Mani, MP, and P. J. Joseph participated in the talks for KC(M). Johny Nelloor of Kerala Congress (Jacob) said that his party had demanded the Idukki seat. C.P. John of the CMP also participated in the discussions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Too many contenders for Wayanad seat
['The death of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president M.I. Shanavas, who represented the Wayanad Lok Sabha seat twice in a row, appears to have thrown up a challenge for the Congress leadership to find a suitable candidate for the upcoming general elections.', 'With too many leaders from north Kerala throwing their hat into the ring, party sources said that choosing the appropriate among them was a daunting task as Wayanad constituency was spread over Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts.', 'Even senior KPCC leaders from southern districts too are vying for nomination. A reason cited for the presence of too many contenders is that the constituency is considered to be the safest for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State.', "KPCC member N.K. Abdurahiman, 64, chairman of the Karassery Service Cooperative Bank, had already announced that the seat should be offered to the 'I' group. Though his influence in the Kozhikode rural belt and Wayanad district remains indisputable, his candidature depends on the Congress high command taking into account his age and health.", 'Many other leaders, including former KPCC president M.M. Hassan and Kozhikode District Congress Committee president T. Siddique are keen to contest the polls.', 'Malappuram DCC president V.V. Prakash and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Shanimol Usman are also eyeing for nomination. Aryadan Shoukath, son of senior Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed, is another contender.', 'Mr. Shanavas won the Wayanad seat defeating M. Rahmathulla of the Communist Party of India (CPI) by a margin of 1,53,439 votes in the 2009 elections. This was when Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, who was with the Nationalist Congress Party then, secured 99,663 votes. Despite multiple forces working against him in the 2014 elections, Mr. Shanavas managed to romp home. His margin of victory came down to 20,870 votes.', 'The electoral success of the Congress candidate depends on several factors in the traditional UDF constituency. But groupism within the party has put up an obstacle this time even as alliance partners such as the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Kerala Congress (M) are demanding additional seats.', 'The Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency consists of Mananthavady, Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery (Wayanad district); Thiruvambady (Kozhikode district), and Nilambur, Wandoor and Eranad (Malappuram district) Assembly segments.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


News Analysis | Parsing Foreign Secretary's statement on Balakot air strikes
['The message clearly, say officials, is that India had carried out a “counter-terror strike” aimed at defending itself, rather than military aggression.', 'To begin with, unlike the September 2016 statement of the strikes that followed the Uri attack, where Director General of Military Operations Lt. Gen. Ranbir Singh addressed the press, this time it was India’s most senior career diplomat who made the announcement of the operations.', 'Next, Mr. Gokhale referred to the fact that the strike was pre-emptive and necessitated by the “credible intelligence” that the JeM was planning, at its training camp, more such attacks on India, where “fidayeen jihadis” were being trained. This indicates that the government did not intend the strike as just a “revenge operation”, but one carried out in self-defence, led by intelligence.', 'Significantly, while the Foreign Secretary described the location of the camp at Balakot, he gave no details of how the strike was actually carried out. “India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot. In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of Jihadis who were being trained for Fidayeen action were eliminated,” he said.', 'The omission of how the strike was carried out has led to speculation that while the target was deep inside Pakistani territory, not far from the cantonment town of Abbottabad, Indian jets may not have needed to cross too far in over the Line of Control.', 'According to military and diplomatic sources, this is the farthest Indian Air Force jets have crossed into Pakistani-held territory since 1971, but couldn’t confirm the actual distance inside Pakistan that was travelled.', 'Finally, Mr. Gokhale’s phrase “non-military pre-emptive action” aimed only at the JeM camp, not at military targets, and assiduously avoiding civilian casualties, is significant. The message that goes out is that India has done what it needed to do to defend itself, after being left with no other choice, and with no desire to engage militarily with Pakistan. The ball now, is in Pakistan’s court.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Rehabilitation homes: SC asks Chief Secys of all states to hold meeting with health ministry
['The Supreme Court on Monday directed chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories to hold a meeting in four weeks with the Union health secretary to chalk out a road map for setting up rehabilitation homes for people who have recovered from mental illness and are fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals.', 'A bench of justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta directed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to appoint a nodal officer to conduct the meeting.', 'The court, while was hearing a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, directed all the states and UTs to provide full data to the Ministry of Home Affairs on the status of mentally ill patients who are now fit to go home but are unable to do so.', 'It said that the data provided by the states must include roadmap regarding setting up for rehabilitation homes and based on it the Union ministry will prepare a report to be submitted in apex court before the next date of hearing.', 'The court warned that non compliance of the order will be treated as contempt of court and posted the matter for further hearing on May 1.', 'Mr. Bansal in his plea has said that around 10,000 persons, who are fit to be discharged, are forced to live in different mental hospitals and institutes due to social stigma.', 'On October 3, last year, the apex court had sought reports from all the states and Union Territories on the status of setting up rehabilitation homes for people with mental illness.', 'Several states and UTs have filed their response on the compliance of the Centre’s guidelines for setting up of rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness (who have been cured, or who do not need further hospitalization, or who are homeless or are not accepted by their families).', 'Mr. Bansal had earlier said that except for few, many states and UTs have not complied with the order of July 10, 2017, in which they were asked to implement the guidelines prepared by Centre within one year period.', 'States and UTs which have filed their response include Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya, Punjab, Nagaland, West Bengal, Telangana, Tripura, Delhi, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.', 'On July 10 last year, the apex court had taken on record the affidavit filed by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities of Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment by which it had highlighted the guidelines for the state governments for setting up rehabilitation homes for persons living with mental illness.', 'The apex court had asked the Union Ministry to circulate the guidelines to all the state governments and UTs, with a direction to implement them within one year.', 'It had also directed the state governments to comply with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and file a status report most definitely before August 1, 2018.', 'On February 14, the apex court had favoured framing of a uniform national policy to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals after being cured.', 'It had said that the issue concerned figured in the concurrent list of the Constitution and hence the Centre also has the authority to frame norms.', 'The PIL filed by Bansal has raised the issue of release of about 300 persons from various mental hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, alleging they were still languishing there despite being cured of their ailments and most of them belonged to poorer sections.', 'It has alleged that many underprivileged persons were still staying in mental hospitals despite being cured and there was no policy in place to ensure their well-being after release.', 'The plea also referred to responses received underI with regard to the release of persons living in mental hospitals in Bareilly, Varanasi and Agra in Uttar Pradesh even after being cured.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


SC transfers Kalburgi murder case to SIT probing Gauri Lankesh killing
['The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the transfer of the investigation into the murder of M.M. Kalburgi to the same Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the killing of journalist Gauri Lankesh.', 'A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and Vineet Saran directed the Dharwad Bench of the Karnataka High Court to monitor the SIT investigation.', 'The Kalburgi death was earlier investigated by the Karnataka CID.', 'Initially, the court contemplated having the Bombay High Court monitor the Kalburgi case. The Bombay High Court is currently monitoring the murders ofactivists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. A line of argument had been raised before the Supreme Court that all four cases were inter-linked.', 'But Karnataka’s Additional Advocate General Devadutt Kamat objected, submitting that there was an SIT already probing the Lankesh case.', 'The court is hearing a petition filed by Umadevi Kalburgi for a comprehensive, fair and co-ordinated probe into the brutal deaths of her husband, Kalburgi, Lankesh, Dabholkar and Pansare.', 'The Karnataka government has always maintained that the investigation of both Kalburgi and Lankesh murders should remain in the State. Lankesh was shot dead in broad daylight in front of her Bengaluru residence on September 5, 2017. A Kendriya Sahitya Akademi awardee and anti-superstition activist, Kalburgi, was shot dead at his Bengaluru residence on August 30, 2015.', 'Umadevi believes the very same shooters behind the murders of Pansare on February 16, 2015 in Kolhapur, Maharashtra and Dr. Narendra Dabholkar on August 20, 2013 in Pune were behind her husband’s murder in 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


‘This book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly’
['Why adoption? And why a picture book?', 'I have a question for you too!', 'Don’t you feel that alternative family situations have never been properly addressed in our popular culture, or mainstream media? In India, the lives of thousands of vulnerable children could be transformed by loving homes, yet there is virtually no coverage of adoption in kids’ books here. I wanted to open up a way for children from all family backgrounds, traditional and non-traditional, to celebrate how different kinds of families come together inseparably through love, including not only adoptive families but, for example, those with LGBTQ parents, step-siblings, or a surrogate mother. And what better way of exploring the ways of love with little ones than picture books?', 'Your text is simple but the words have been chosen with care.', 'All children’s authors would agree that writing for formative minds is a joyful but gigantic responsibility; every word must be chosen with care. But this book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly. It was brewing in my heart for a long time!', 'When: Usually at night. I often go to bed after my four year old goes to school!', 'Where: Anywhere quiet.', 'How: I jot down ideas wherever I can — my phone, my diary, a used envelope. I brainstorm my way through a rough structure in longhand, and write it on my laptop once the outline is clear. Oddly enough, I always write the first draft quickly, then agonise over making every word just right.', 'Both these books focus, in different ways, on equality and empathy, but they need to stand on their own as playful, imaginative stories that captivate a child. For instance, Mambi is a spunky monkey who wants to fly and swim like her ‘cooler’ jungle mates, but discovers that she has her own special gifts that help save her friends. Mambi sparks off discussions about how all of us are equal, with unique abilities and interests that we must embrace. I’m glad that Mambi has been so loved by kids (including children with special needs, whose experiences are insufficiently represented in children’s books).', 'What do you look for when picking up a children’s book?', 'I love books that are wildly inventive, that transport you to new worlds even as they make you understand your known world better. Books which, without being didactic, encourage children to think critically and creatively, and promote a kinder, more inclusive view of our world. Wicked humour is always a plus!', 'Tell us about the books you enjoyed reading as a child. Which children’s writers do you love now?', 'Any more books in the pipeline? Will these be picture books?', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Congress will protect the language and culture of northeast: Rahul Gandhi
['The Conress chief promises to restore ‘special status’ to Assam.', 'Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday asserted that his party will protect the culture, history and language of the northeast if voted to power.', 'Kicking off the poll campaign in Assam, Mr. Gandhi attacked the BJP and the RSS, accusing them of “burning” every state in the region.', 'Mr. Gandhi exuded confidence that the Congress will come to power at the Centre and work towards protecting the identity of the region.', 'He also promised to restore ‘special status’ to Assam and bring back the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIIPP).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Chennai’s Senate House opens its doors to the public
['It stands at the site of what was once the Nawab of Arcot’s artillery park. From its shady boulevard guns were fired to greet visitors. Today, Senate House stands a silent sentinel gazing at the Marina as students mill about its grounds, pigeons roost in its eaves and visitors throng the Chennai Photo Biennale’s exhibition held in its ornate halls.', 'Senate House was completed in 1879. The library and teaching departments were built in similar style to lend it continuity. The fragile beauty of Senate House was the result of the genius of Robert Fellowes Chisholm who as a young engineer at 21 won a contest and was chosen to design Presidency College and a building to house the offices of the University. Chisholm is also credited with designing the Lakshmi Vilas Palace and the Museum in Baroda, Lawrence school in Ooty and the Rangoon Cathedral. In a way, he changed the skyline of Madras and by the end of his tenure in India in 1902 was considered the master of Indo-Saracenic architecture.', 'The main door of Senate House faces the Centenary buildings and opens to the Great Hall (150 feet long, 60 feet wide and 50 feet high from boarded floor to ornate, canvas ceiling). It was here that convocations were once held, here that students in robes and academic caps celebrated in jubilation before the University expanded and convocations were held at the Centenary auditorium across the road. When the first Assembly was constituted in 1937, it was here that it met.', 'Light from the evening sun filters through the arcaded verandahs supported by stone capitals with Indian figurines. The red hand-pressed brick is firm to the touch and cool despite the searing heat. Broomhall’s tiles cover the roofs from where pigeons fly out to wheel over the Bay and back. Windows — shuttered, vertical and circular — covered in stained glass and woodwork lend it the solemn air of a cathedral. Mooresque colours dominate the walls and lecture halls on the floor above are accessed through grand stairways. The minarets and porches lend it a fabled feel. From the star-embossed stone porches one can see the almost-forgotten statue of Queen Victoria seated shrouded under a canopy of wild bushes. Gazing at the sea and the cars parked in front of it with its back to Senate House is the statue of S Subramania Aiyar, first Indian Vice Chancellor.', 'On the day I visit, work is in progress for the Biennale. The clickety-clack of a typewriter from the Publications office on the ground floor echoes through the hall. Workers erect installations and artists are at work. Dust dances in the sunbeams that light up the floor and lends Senate Hall a touch of fast-fading old world grace. Go before its doors close and its beauty blushes unseen.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Pakistan denies IAF attack, vows to respond at the time and place of its choosing
['Pakistan said on Tuesday that it would respond to India’s claims of air strikes on targets on its territory.', "A statement from Pakistan’s National Security Committee (NSC) followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'The NSC meeting was attended by Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance and Chief of the Army Staff General Bajwa, among others. Prime Minister Imran Khan has urged people of Pakistan to remain prepared for all eventualities.', 'The government of Pakistan said that they will take domestic and international media to the impact zone that was hit by Indian payloads.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on Balakot terror camp: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Modi assures country in safe hands, says he will not let country down
['In his first public address after the air strikes on terror camps in Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the country is in safe hands and nothing is above the nation. The Prime Minister also said that he will not let the country down.', 'I want to assure the people that the country is in safe hands. There is nothing above the nation, he said addressing a public meeting in Churu.', 'The Prime Minister, however, did not make a direct reference to the Balakot strikes.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders. The operation, described as a non-military, preemptive strike, was welcomed by the entire political spectrum and military experts who had been advocating retribution after the February 14 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama claimed by JeM.', 'Addressing the rally, Mr. Modi said he was able to work because the party is above individuals and the country was above the party.', 'He said with the sentiment of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan’, the country was progressing ahead. Referring to the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, Mr. Modi said that first installment of Rs 2000 was directly transferred to bank accounts of farmers.', 'Attacking the Congress government in the state, he said unfortunately not a single farmer from Churu was among the beneficiaries as the Rajasthan government was stopping the benefits that Centre wants to pass on to them.', 'Rajasthan has not provided list of farmers for the scheme launched by the Centre. Welfare of poor and farmers is the priority of our government but it is sad that schemes meant for them are subjected to politics, he said.', 'Mr. Modi said welfare of farmers was among the priorities of the government but it hurts when schemes related to them is subjected to politics. He said the government was working on ‘Sabka sath sabka vikas’ model.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pakistan to raise issue of India’s ‘violation’ of LoC at UN, OIC: Report
['Joint session of Parliament to be called to take the the law makers into confidence.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, a media said Tuesday, quoting sources.', 'In a swift and precise air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders.', 'Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi will make contact to raise the issue at international forums, sources added.', 'During the meeting, it was also decided that a joint session will be called to take the Parliament into confidence.', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed the participants of the meeting on the current situation in the wake of Indian air strikes on Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest camp in Pakistan early Tuesday.', 'Ahead of the meeting, Mr. Qureshi chaired an emergency consultative meeting at the Foreign Office.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strike in Balakot: who is JeM's Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


A life on the road
['In the next hour, I’ve packed two pannier-size bags, put my riding gear on, fired up the Harley-Davidson Street Glide and joined three riders on National Highway 48. The murky air clears up — as I leave Delhi’s noxious skies behind — and so does my mind: there’s never a good enough reason not to ride out of town.', 'Riding a motorcycle is all about sensory gratification. The sound of the engine, the wind buffeting the face, the satisfying clunk of the gearbox, the vibration under the seat. The best way to articulate what the H-D Street Glide — my ride for the trip — feels like, would be to amplify these inputs to superlative levels. While H-D’s new Milwaukee-Eight engine — infinitely more refined than its predecessors — takes a lot of credit for that, the weightiness of the Glide’s appeal is borne literally out of heft.', 'The largest ‘Softail’ in H-D’s line-up, the 400-kilogram Glide is the classic American cruiser, replete with a stereo, navigation software, massive windscreen, aircraft-like console, a couch for the saddle, and more chrome and leather than you’d find in a luxury car. If accoutrements, gravitas and comfort are the criteria, then the Glide is the motorcycling equivalent of the Starship Enterprise. Not one for puerile acceleration, it responds well to restraint, and a gradual build-up of momentum. And once you’ve understood how to channel that inertia, then it barrels through with the momentum of a freight train.', 'A long ride like Delhi to Goa is best done placidly. While it’s entirely possible to zip across in three days, our armada never hit warp speed. Four days, and atmospheric stops at Jaipur, Udaipur, Daman, and Pune later, I found myself riding alone on the final stretch down to the western coast.', 'At the first glimpse of the ocean, I stopped, pulled over, and wondered if there was anything else I would rather be doing at that moment. It all came together in that instant: the ride, the motorcycle and the place. Not sure about other directions, but at least this time, I knew what was in store for me, in the direction I nearly didn’t take. Jack figured it out a long time ago. I was surprised, as always, how easy the act of leaving was, and how good it felt. The world was suddenly rich with possibility.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


China calls for ‘restraint’ after India’s air strikes on terror camp in Pakistan
['New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation,” says Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson.', 'Asked to comment on India targeting terrorist camps and not Pakistani military sites, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said New Delhi should have avoided unilateral action, and instead dealt with the situation through “international cooperation”.', 'China has repeatedly placed a “technical hold” on designating JeM head Masood Azhar as an international terrorist by the 1267 committee of the UN Security Council, as demanded by India and other permanent members of the UNSC.', 'He urged both sides to collaborate on fighting terrorism and jointly safeguard the security and stability of South Asia. The Chinese Minister advocated a bilateral engagement between India and Pakistan during a telephonic conversation with his Pakistani counterpart, Shah Mahmood Qureshi.', 'China is expected to further elaborate on its stance on Wednesday, when Mr. Wang meets External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on the sidelines of the foreign ministerial meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) in Wuzhen, East China.', 'The Wuzhen talks will mark the first high-level dialogue between India and China after the Pulwama attack.', 'Russia, led by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, is also expected to weigh in on the post-Pulwama situation between India and Pakistan — both recent members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), founded by Beijing and Moscow, as well as established nuclear powers.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Refrain from plunging the region into war, Pak Opposition leader Shehbaz Sharif tells India
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


IAF Balakot air strike: Pakistani villagers say one person wounded in attack
['Pakistani villagers in the Balakot, the area where IAF’s pre-dawn air strike operation against Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camps was held, said they heard four loud bangs in the early hours of Tuesday but reported only one person wounded by bomb shards.', 'In an air strike following the Pulwama attack, India bombed and destroyed Jaish-e-Mohammed’s biggest training camp in Pakistan early on Tuesday, killing a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders, officials said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?"]


IAF strikes in Balakot: govt convenes all-party meeting, Sushma Swaraj to brief Opposition leaders
['The government has convened an all-party meeting on Tuesday where External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj will brief the leaders of Opposition parties on the pre-dawn air strikes by Indian Air Force jets on the Jaish-e-Mohammed’s (JeM) terror camp at Bagalkot in Pakistan, sources said.', 'The meeting had been convened at at Jawahar Bhawan, which houses the Ministry of External Affairs.', 'In the air strikes, a “very large number” of terrorists, trainers and senior commanders were killed, officials said.', 'At a briefing earlier in the day, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale said credible intelligence was received that the JeM was planning to carry out other suicide attacks in India after the Pulwama bombing on a CRPF convoy 12 days ago that killed 40 jawans.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


NIA carries out raids on separatists, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in Kashmir
['The NIA on Tuesday carried out searches at the residences of nine separatist leaders in the Kashmir valley, including that of Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said.', 'Besides the Mirwaiz, the houses of JKLF’s Yasin Malik, Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s son Nayeem Geelani, Shabir Shah, Zaffar Bhat and Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai were also searched.', 'According to police officers, the NIA raids were carried out in a “illegal funding case” registered by the national agency in 2017 when it rounded up seven top separatist leaders from Kashmir.', 'The NIA officials were accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel as searches were carried out.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Ayodhya title suit appeals: Supreme Court to pass order on March 5 on mediation
['A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', 'In a two-pronged approach, the Bench on Tuesday strongly pitched for the healing touch of an out-of-court settlement between the Muslim and Hindu parties through court-monitored mediation even as it simultaneously went ahead with preparations to finally hear the Ayodhya title suit appeals pending for almost nine years in the court.', 'Justice S.A. Bobde, on the Bench, said the mediation, if done, would be confidential and court-monitored. The Ayodhya dispute was "much more" than a mere property dispute. It has dragged on for decades. Mediation may result in the permanent resolution of the dispute. An effort should be made even if there is only a "one percent chance of success".', 'Eight weeks is the time given to the Muslim parties to examine the accuracy and relevance of the Uttar Pradesh government\'s official translation of thousands of pages of oral depositions and exhibits in the Ayodhya title suit appeals. Chief Justice Gogoi said a shot at mediation under Section 89 of the Civil Procedure Code would be an "effective utilisation of time" during the interregnum.', 'The CJI also expressed the hope that mediation may spell a peaceful end to the volatile dispute between two faiths over the land where the Babri Masjid once stood before it was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992.', 'The Muslim parties led by senior advocates Rajeev Dhawan and Dushyant Dave said the mediation route had been tried before, but their side was in "broad agreement" for another opportunity.', "The Uttar Pradesh government and senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, who represents deity Ram Lalla, both disagreed with the court's suggestion for a mediation. But Nirmohi Akhara, one of the Hindu organisations, said they were agreeable.", "Brushing aside the mixture of agreements and discontent expressed over the court's suggestion for mediation, the Bench made it clear in its order that Section 89 clothes the court with the power to override objections and push for a peaceful settlement of a dispute. The powers of the court under Section 89 is indeed unlimited.", 'The CJI observed in the order that a court-monitored mediation, if ordered, would be done with the "utmost confidentiality". The mediation would confront issues raised before the court in the appeals.', 'The court, however, deferred referring the dispute for mediation to March 5. "We will pass orders on Tuesday," Chief Justice Gogoi observed.', 'The hearing began with the CJI handing out and reading from a report of the Secretary General of the Supreme Court about the state of readiness of the Ayodhya title suit appeals.', 'The CJI said documents numbered 38471 pages. "If the official translations filed by the Uttar Pradesh government is acceptable to all, the case should commence hearing. Once proceedings start, there should not be any contest to the accuracy of the translations," he observed.', 'Mr. Dhawan said his clients should be given an opportunity to examine the translations of the State government.', 'But Mr. Vaidyanathan protested that Mr. Dhawan, appearing for appellant M. Siddique, was trying to delay hearing of the appeals.', 'He said several orders had been passed by the apex court as way back as in 2015, giving opportunity to Mr. Dhawan\'s side to examine the State\'s translations and report back. "For all these years, they did nothing and now they raise objections," Mr. Vaidyanathan countered Mr. Dhawan.', 'But Mr. Dhawan submitted that there may have been some "exchanges" in the past, but those necessarily did not amount to discussions on the accuracy of the translations. "That penultimate exercise has to take place," he said.', 'But Chief Justice Gogoi indicated that the court does not intend to wait indefinitely to hear the appeals. "We will not waste our time over your dispute about the authenticity of the translations," he said.', 'The court said it was necessary to reach a consensus on the authenticity of the translations so that no controversy would be raised later that would derail the proceedings in the appeals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


12 Mirage-2000 jets hit Balakot in Pakistan: sources
['The Mirages-2000s used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance.', 'This was India’s response to the Pulwama terror attack which killed 40 paramilitary personnel. This is a departure from the earlier surgical strikes of 2016 where Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.', 'Balakot is about 50 kilometres from the LoC. It is in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan and about two hours drive from Abbottabad.', 'This image made out of Google Maps locates Balakot town in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan.', 'SPICE stands for ‘Smart, Precise Impact and Cost-Effective’ — a kit which converts a conventional bomb into a smart munition and is manufactured by Rafael of Israel. The ‘2000’ denotes a 1,000 kg bomb. The PGM enables the aircraft to fire them from standoff distances staying away from harm’s way and the munitions glide to the target once launched.', 'The IAF’s Central Air Command led the air strikes. Both the Israeli Phalcon and indigenous Netra early warning aircraft were deployed to monitor the mission, to direct the aircraft as well as keep an eye on Pakistani F-16s that might be deployed to counter them and a Heron long-range UAV was in the air for monitoring.', 'The Mirages used the Israeli Litening Targeting Pods to mark the targets and the PGMs were launched from a safe distance. It is not clear though how much inside the LoC did the Mirages go to release the munitions.', 'Another source said the initial Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) is that the hit was 100% and all aircraft returned safely. Further details from the assessment are awaited.', 'As India explored military options in response to the terror attack, a repeat of a ground strike was ruled out as the element of surprise was lost and there was a risk of casualties.', 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on Pakistani soil and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into Pakistani air space. Even during Kargil conflict, IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'A senior Army officer posted along the LoC said Pakistan had quickly ramped up its military deployments on their side soon after the Pulwama attack on February 14. “We cannot do a ground strike as they are ready,” he stated. However, he added that the Army was put on high alert since Pulwama anticipating escalation in ceasefire violations and cross-border firing by Pakistan Army.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Pak drone shot down near Gujarat border
['Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch.', 'A Pakistani unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was on Tuesday shot down near the International Border in Kutch district of Gujarat, police sources said.', 'Debris of the UAV was seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they said.', 'On hearing a loud sound around 6 am, villagers went to the spot and found the debris of the UAV, the sources said.', 'The official, however, refused to elaborate further.', 'Earlier, government sources said that in a pre-dawn strike, combat jets of Indian Air Force bombed terror camps at multiple locations across the Line of Control on the Pakistani side, 12 days after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group carried out the dastardly Pulwama attack in Kashmir.', 'They said the IAF’s Mirage 2000 fighter jets pounded the terror camps in Balakot, Muzaffarabad and Chakoti in the well-planned strike destroying Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps.', 'Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the operation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?
["Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Over 40,000 people from 80 countries joined the IS till the fall of the ‘Caliphate’ in 2017. Only a small percentage have returned to the country from where they left.', 'The trajectories of IS foreign affiliates are diverse, according to the report.', 'Several of them were killed in Syria and Iraq; some were executed by IS from within their own ranks; detained by regional authorities; involved in detainee exchanges; repatriated to their home nations; in third-party countries; or whose status is simply unknown.', 'The percentage of women who returned to their countries of departure is minuscule (about 5%).', 'Where were they from?', 'A region-wise break-up shows that about 45% of the IS affiliates were from West Asia and North Africa. About 9% of these affiliates returned to their countries of departure. There were also a large number of them from Europe.', 'About 5,000 affiliates from Russia (including Chechnya and Dagestan) travelled to Syria/ Iraq to join the IS. Only around 8% of them have returned. The scatter plot shows the affiliates from each country as a percentage of total fighters and the percentage of affiliates who returned to their countries of departure.', 'The scatter plot below shows affiliates (as a % of total) on the vertical axis and % of returnees on the horizontal axis. You can use the dropdown to select a country.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?
["IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'He is reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale on Tuesday confirmed that India had “struck the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot", in the early hours of Tuesday.', 'He said the strikes took place on a hilltop in a forest location far from civilian areas and that the JeM camp was run by Yusuf Azhar, reportedly the brother-in-law of JeM leader Masood Azhar.', 'Yusuf Azhar alias Mohammad Salim was one of the men who hijacked the Indian Airline flight IC 814 to Kandahar in 1999. The JeM chief was then released by India in exchange for the IC- 814 hijacked passengers.', "In 2002, the government handed over a list of 20 fugitives to Islamabad and it had Yusuf Azhar's name.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


India has committed an aggression and Islamabad has the right to respond, says Pak. Foreign Minister
['Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Tuesday said India had committed an “aggression” by violating the Line of Control (LoC) and that Islamabad had the “right to respond”.', 'Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was chairing an “important meeting” to discuss the situation, sources in Islamabad said.', 'Mr Qureshi said, “First, they committed an aggression against Pakistan today. It is a violation of the LoC. I consider it a violation of the LoC, and Pakistan has the right to give a suitable response in self-defence,” he told reporters after an “emergency meeting” at the Foreign Office (FO).', 'Mr. Qureshi briefed Mr. Khan after the meeting.', "Senator Sherry Rehman, a leading Opposition leader of the Pakistan People's Party, said that “Indian incursion” across the LoC was strategically “ill-advised and tactically pointless. Such moves only ratchet up tensions in a region bristling with anger.", 'Pakistani media has reported that the Government of India staged a symbolic intrusion due to domestic pressure.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "Where are Islamic State's foreign recruits now?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


VVIP chopper case: Delhi court extends judicial custody of Christian Michel by one day
['Special judge Arvind Kumar extended his custody in the case lodged by CBI.', 'Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22 last year.', 'Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?", 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Aerial strikes on JeM camp: political leaders laud IAF | Live updates
['A number of terrorists at the JeM camp in Balakot were killed, confirms Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale also said a number of terrorists were eliminated in the air strike.', 'AIMIM chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday hailed the Indian Air Force’s strikes and said the Indian defence forces should be prepared to tackle any retaliatory action.', 'The RSS congratulates the government and the Indian Air Force for the air strikes, saying they have translated into action the angry feelings of Indians following the Pulwama attack.', 'Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh general secretary Suresh Joshi in a statement says that these air strikes caused no harm to the Pakistani army and civilians which, he added, is tune with the “Bharatiya” (Indian) culture.', 'Chairman of People’s Conference in Kashmir Sajad Gani Lone says the air strikes will set a benchmark for deterrence and eventually end the cycle of violence.', 'Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik hails the Air Force for its pre-dawn air strikes. “I salute the Indian Air Force for having taken action to protect our country,” he says.', 'The Indian Air Force’s strikes on a terrorist camp in Pakistan underscores the will and resolve of a new India, says BJP president Amit Shah. He asserts that it shows that the country is safe under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s strong and decisive leadership.', 'Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy lauds the Prime Minister for the air strikes. He commends Mr. Modi for his “bold” efforts against terrorism. Mr. Modi was tasting success in rooting out terrorism, which was threatening the entire world, the Chief Minister says in a statement and congratulates him on behalf of the State people.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes. The entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces, he says.', 'Narendra Modi had given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead, he points out.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', "Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan 'welcomes' the air strikes and ’salutes’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.", 'West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hails IAF for carrying out the air strikes.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


'India struck biggest training camp of JeM' - full statement from Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale
['India carried out an operation targeting the biggest training camp of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Balakot, Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale confirmed on Tuesday at a press conference in New Delhi. He said that the Government of India is taking all measures to counter terrorism and Tuesday’s strike was necessary to pre-empt further terror attacks against India.', 'India conducts air-strikes: follow live updates here.', 'He emphasised that the outfit was responsible for the attack against the CRPF personnel in Pulwama and urged Pakistan to live up to its public commitment against terrorism and take further actions against JeM and other camps.', 'On 14 February 2019, a suicide terror attack was conducted by a Pak-based terrorist organization Jaish-e-Mohammad, leading to the martyrdom of 40 brave jawans of the CRPF.\xa0 JeM has been active in Pakistan for the last two decades, and is led by MASOOD AZHAR with its headquarters in Bahawalpur.', 'This organization, which is proscribed by the UN, has been responsible of a series of terrorist attacks including on the Indian Parliament in December 2001 and the Pathankot airbase in January 2016.', 'Information regarding the location of training camps in Pakistan and PoJK has been provided to Pakistan from time to time.\xa0 Pakistan, however, denies their existence.\xa0 The existence of such massive training facilities capable of training hundreds of jidhadis could not have functioned without the knowledge of Pakistan authorities.', 'India has been repeatedly urging Pakistan to take action against the JeM to prevent jihadis from being trained and armed inside Pakistan.\xa0 Pakistan has taken no concrete actions to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on its soil.', 'Credible intelligence was received that JeM was attempting another suicide terror attack in various parts of the country, and the fidayeen jihadis were being trained for this purpose.\xa0 In the face of imminent danger,\xa0 a preemptive strike became absolutely necessary.', 'In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by MAULANA YOUSUF AZHAR (alias USTAD GHOURI), the brother-in-law of MASOOD AZHAR, Chief of JeM.', 'The Government of India is firmly and resolutely committed to taking all necessary measures to fight the menace of terrorism.\xa0 Hence this non-military preemptive action was specifically targeted at the JeM camp.\xa0 The selection of the target was also conditioned by our desire to avoid civilian casualties.\xa0 The facility is located in thick forest on a hilltop far away from any civilian presence.\xa0 As the strike has taken place only a short while\xa0 ago, we are awaiting further details.', 'The Government of Pakistan had made a solemn commitment in January 2004 not to allow its soil or territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India.\xa0 We expect that Pakistan lives up to its public commitment and takes follow up actions to dismantle all JeM and other camps and hold the terrorists accountable for the actions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.']


Iran’s foreign minister resigns as his nuclear deal teeters
['In this April 18, 2017 file photo, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif speaks to the media in Tbilisi, Georgia.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with.', 'Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif resigned without warning late Monday, offering an “apology” to the nation as the nuclear deal he negotiated with world powers is on the verge of collapse after the US withdrawal from the accord.', 'Mr. Zarif’s resignation, if accepted by Iran’s relatively moderate President Hassan Rouhani, would leave the cleric without one of his main allies in pushing the Islamic Republic toward further negotiations with the West.', 'It remains unclear why Mr. Zarif chose to leave his post now and what effect it will have on the atomic accord, which Iran has been complying with. He likely briefed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei before offering his resignation. Ayatollah Khamenei, who has final say on all state matters, previously backed the American-educated envoy through the nuclear negotiations.', 'The veteran diplomat first hinted at his resignation with a vague Instagram post in which he offered an “apology” for his “inability to continue to his service.” The post included a drawing honoring Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet Muhammad, as Iranians commemorate her birth Tuesday.', 'A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Abbas Mousavi, confirmed to the state-run IRNA news agency minutes later that Mr. Zarif had resigned but gave no reason for his departure.', 'Earlier Monday, Mr. Zarif met with members of the activist group Code Pink in Tehran, smiling as he posed for a photograph with them. However, he was not seen in images later in the day showing Syrian President Bashar Assad meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei and Mr. Rouhani. Iran has been one of Assad’s main supporters during the years-long war in Syria.', 'On Sunday, Mr. Zarif criticised Iranian hard-liners in a speech in Tehran, saying: “We cannot hide behind imperialism’s plot and blame them for our own incapability.” “Independence does not mean isolation from the world,” he said.', 'Analysts say Mr. Rouhani faces growing political pressure from hard-liners within the government as the nuclear deal unravels. Iranian presidents typically see their popularity erode during their second four-year term, but analysts say Mr. Rouhani is particularly vulnerable because of the economic crisis assailing the country’s rial currency, which has hurt ordinary Iranians and emboldened critics to openly call for his ouster.', 'Reaction to Mr. Zarif’s resignation was swift. A prominent reformist lawmaker, Mostafa Kavakebian, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Rouhani should reject Mr. Zarif’s resignation as his departure would only “make enemies of Iran’s dignity happy.” Hassan Mohammadi, a Tehran-based political analyst close to Mr. Rouhani, said he understood it was Mr. Zarif’s third time submitting his resignation in the last year.', 'The son of a wealthy family, Mr. Zarif overcame hardline objections and Western suspicions to strike the accord with world powers that saw Iran promise to limit its enrichment of uranium in exchange for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions.', 'But the deal was later challenged by the administration of President Donald Trump, which pulled America out of the accord. In doing so, Trump also fueled doubts of Iranians still wary of U.S. interests decades after Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution. Zarif himself faced withering criticism at home after he shook hands with President Barack Obama.', 'Meanwhile, officials in the Trump administration have also been pressuring Iran through social media, with one State Department official tweeting an unflattering GIF of Mr. Zarif saying: “How do you know @JZarif is lying? His lips are moving.” Mr. Zarif (59), served as Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007, first under reformist President Mohammad Khatami and then under hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.', 'Mr. Ahmadinejad wanted him replaced, but Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei intervened to keep him in the position for another two years as Iran soon found itself an international pariah over its nuclear program. Iran insisted its atomic program was for peaceful purposes only, while the West feared it could be used to make nuclear weapons.', 'Secret backchannel talks between the United States and Iran in Oman became full-fledged negotiations over its nuclear program. During the talks, Zarif met with then-U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry more than 50 times — something that would have been unimaginable only a few years earlier.', 'Mr. Kerry and Mr. Zarif’s rapport extended beyond just the nuclear negotiations. Mr. Kerry directly reached out to his counterpart in January 2016 to help secure the release within 24 hours of 10 U.S. Navy sailors seized by Iran after they mistakenly entered Iranian territorial waters.', 'Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group and a longtime Iran watcher, described Mr. Zarif’s resignation as a “bolt from the blue” from a diplomat who had served as “the face of Iran” for years. He said that while it was still too early to determine what prompted Mr. Zarif’s resignation, it didn’t necessarily signal a major shift away from the nuclear deal.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Trump and Kim to have dinner before series of official talks
['Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory.', 'The second summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un will begin with an official greeting and a meal the night before a series of official meetings.', 'Mr. Trump is set to arrive late Tuesday in Hanoi, Vietnam, and meet on Wednesday with Vietnam’s president and prime minister ahead of seeing Mr. Kim. The North Korean leader arrived several hours before Mr. Trump.', 'Before leaving Washington, Mr. Trump downplayed expectations for big strides toward denuclearization by North Korea. He told a meeting of governors that denuclearization remains a goal and predicted that Mr. Kim’s country will gain economically.', 'Worries abound across world capitals about what Mr. Trump might be willing to give up in the name of a victory. Their first summit, last year in Singapore, yielded few concrete results.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Chennai-Mangalore Mail derailed near Shoranur
['Two coaches of Chennai-Mangalore Superfast Mail (12601) derailed near Shoranur Railway station on Tuesday morning. The train was entering the station when it derailed.', 'The incident happened at 6.40 a.m. No one was injured in the accident. \xa0\xa0The train was detailed near the yard, where trains enter the station from the Palakkad side.', 'Two coaches adjacent to the engine, the parcel van and the first coach, were derailed. The electric posts near the railway line were damaged.', 'One parcel van next to the Locomotive and one coach attached to it came off the rails as the train was entering Road 7 of Shoranur Yard from Palakkad side at around 6.30 am.', 'The rail traffic on Shoranur-Thrissur route, which was disrupted for more than three hours, has been partially resumed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Police lathi-charge protesting differently-abled youths in Pune, celebrations over IAF air strikes, and other news in pictures
['Congress president Rahul Gandhi wears a traditional metal hat presented to him during a public rally in Guwahati, Assam on Feb. 26, 2019.', 'Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday alleged the Narendra Modi government is "attacking" every Northeastern State by imposing "Nagpur ideology" there and said his party will protect the culture, history and language of the region if voted to power.', 'Kicking off his party\'s election campaign in Assam at a public rally in Guwahati, Mr. Gandhi also made a series of promises for the region and hit out at the ruling BJP government on various fronts and said the Congress wants to fight "the BJP-RSS ideology of hatred and violence" with its own "ideology of tolerance and love".', 'Differently-abled youths during a protest demanding better facilities at education institutes, in Pune on Tuesday.', 'Mandar Tannu.', 'The Maharashtra police on Tuesday resorted to a lathi charge on differently-abled youths who were protesting outside the Social Welfare Dept office in Pune in support of their demands.', 'The NIA Tuesday carried out searches on separatists in the Kashmir valley, including Mirwaiz Umer Farooq, in a terror funding case, officials said. The NIA sleuths accompanied by local police and CRPF personnel carried out searches at nearly nine places across the valley, which included the house of Nayeem Geelani, son of pro-Pakistan separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, they said.', 'Besides these, the houses of JKLF leader Yaseen Malik, Shabir Shah, Ashraf Sehrai and Zaffar Bhat were also raided.', "Students of different colleges celebrate after the Indian Air Force's air strike on JeM terror camp in Pakistan, in Bhopal on Tuesday.", 'Leaders, bureaucrats, ex-Armymen and students across India on Tuesday hailed the Indian Air Force (IAF) for carrying out air strikes in Pakistan.', "National Security Advisor Ajit Doval leaves after attending a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security at the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, Tuesday, Feb 26, 2019 following the IAF's air strikes in Pakistan.", 'The Cabinet Committee on Security met here Tuesday morning at the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Indian Air Force carried out air strikes in Pakistan.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were present at the meeting.', "National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other top officials of the prime minister's office and the security apparatus were present at the meeting, official sources said.", 'In a pre-dawn strike, combat jets of Indian Air Force bombed terror camps on Tuesday at multiple locations across the Line of Control in the Pakistani side, 12 days after Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group carried out the dastardly Pulwama attack in Kashmir, government sources said.', 'U.S. President Donald Trump is set to land in Vietnam late Tuesday and will have meetings with the host country’s President and Prime Minister Wednesday before sitting down later with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un headed to his second meeting with North Korea’ for a private dinner.', 'The most senior Catholic cleric ever charged with child sex abuse has been convicted of molesting two choirboys moments after celebrating Mass, dealing a new blow to the Catholic hierarchy’s credibility after a year of global revelations of abuse and cover-up.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


America should not give aid to Pakistan until it stops harbouring terrorists: Haley
['Pakistan has a long history of harbouring terrorists and America should not give Islamabad even a dollar until it corrects its behaviour, Indian-American former US envoy to the UN Nikki Haley has said as she praised the Trump administration for wisely restricting financial assistance to the country.', 'Ms. Haley, who has founded a new policy group ‘Stand America Now’ that will focus on how to keep the US safe, strong, and prosperous, wrote in an op-ed that when the US provides aid to nations, “it is more than fair to ask what the U.S. gets in return for our generosity” but instead Pakistan routinely opposed the US position at the UN on several issues.', 'Ms. Haley, who had stepped down as the US envoy to the UN at the end of last year, has previously strongly criticised Pakistan for continuing to harbour terrorists that turn around and kill American soldiers while taking billions of dollars in foreign aid from the US.', 'In an interview to US magazine ‘The Atlantic’ in December, Ms. Haley had said the US did not need to give money to countries that wish harm to America, go behind its back and try and “stop us from doing things”.', 'Last September, the Trump administration cancelled $300 million in military aid to Islamabad for not doing enough against terror groups active on its soil. Mr. Trump had defended his administration’s decision to stop hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Pakistan, saying Islamabad does not do “a damn thing” for the US and its government helped late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden hide near its garrison city of Rawalpindi.', 'Ms. Haley’s new policy group aims to promote public policies that strengthen America’s economy, culture, and national security.', 'The group will provide information to grassroots Americans, to highlight the dangers and the opportunities they face domestically and internationally. It will advocate the policies that strengthen the US at all levels of government and in the broader media and culture.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Mexican President celebrates Oscar for Roma
["Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador gestures during his daily news conference at National Palace in Mexico City, Mexico in this file photo.", 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has congratulated the entire team of the Mexican film “Roma” for winning three Oscars.', 'The week began “with good news”, Mr. Obrador said at a press conference on Monday and hailed the film’s director, Alfonso Cuaron, Efe news reported.', 'The 91st Academy Awards on Sunday saw “Roma” become the first Mexican feature to win the Oscar for best foreign film, while Cuaron took home the awards for cinematography and directing.', 'The Mexican President though acknowledged he was yet to see “Roma” and vowed to reach out personally to Cuaron and everyone else involved in the film, which tells the story of an indigenous domestic worker.', 'Shot in black-and-white with dialogue in Spanish and the indigenous Mixtec language, “Roma” was released by streaming service Netflix, not a traditional studio.', 'In five of the last six years, the Oscar for best director has gone to a Mexican.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


AIADMK, BJP will lose for tie-up with PMK: Elangovan
['Former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president E.V.K.S. Elangovan has said that by joining hands with the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-AIADMK alliance will lose the deposit in all the 40 Lok Sabha constituencies.', 'Mr. Elangovan told mediapersons here on Monday that the PMK did not fulfil its promises in the past 20 years and was using the elections for political trade. After having attacked the AIADMK, the PMK had now become it ally, but it would be of no use electorally.', 'Asked about no progress having been made so far in the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) – AIADMK alliance talks, Mr. Elangovan said the DMDK would vanish after the elections.', 'The visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah would not bring any change in the State, he said, and added that the people had accepted Congress president Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Ministerial candidate.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Special trains announced for summer season
['The Southern Railways has announced special trains in April and May to handle passenger traffic during summer season.', 'Train No.06038 Ernakulam Junction-Chennai Central special fare special train will depart from Ernakulam Junction at 7.40 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30. The train would reach Chennai Central at 9.35 a.m. on the next day.', 'The train is composed of one AC 2-tier, two AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. The train will stop at Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam and Perambur.', 'Train No. 06059 Chennai Central – Thiruvananthapuram Central special fare special train will leave Chennai Central at 7 p.m. on Thursdays between April 4 and May 30 except April 18 and May 23 and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.45 a.m. the next day.', 'Train No.06060 Thiruvananthapuram Central – Chennai Central special fare special train will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3.45 p.m on Wednesdays between April 3 and May 29 and reach Chennai Central at 9.45 a.m the next day.', 'Both the trains will have two AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Kollam, Kayankulam, Mavellikara, Chengannur, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palakkad, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Tiruvananthapuram Central to Chennai Central Special fare special train will stop at Perambaur also.', 'Train No.06026 Tiruchchirappalli – Ernakulam Junction special fare special train will leave Tiruchchirappalli at 2.20 p.m. on Saturdays between April 6 and May 25 except April 13 and reach Ernakulam Junction at 8.45 a.m. the next day.', 'The trains are composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Melmarvathur, Chengalpattu, Tambaram, Chennai Egmore, Arakkonam, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrissur, Aluva and Ernakulam Town.', 'Train No.06033 Chennai Central - Coimbatore special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 8.45 p.m. on Mondays between April 8 and May 27 and reach Chennai Central at 4.15 a.m the next day.', 'The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi and Arakkonam.', 'Train No.06025 Coimbatore - Tiruchchirappalli special fare special train will leave Coimbatore at 9.15 p.m. Tuesdays between April 9 and May 28 and it will reach reach Tiruchchirappalli at 11.15 a.m. the next day. The train is composed of one air-conditioned first class, one AC 2-tier,three AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.', 'The train will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Arakkonam, Perambur, Chennai Egmore, Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Melmarvathur, Villupuram, Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur and Srirangam.', 'Advance reservations for the special trains have begun.', 'The Railway Board has approved additional stop for Chennai Central – Mangalore – Chennai Central Express at Jolarpettai.', 'According to a release, the additional stop has been approved for Train No. 12685 / 12686 on experimental basis for a period of six months, till August 23.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


ICF rolls out first set of swanky steel coaches for NMR
['The Integral Coach Factory on Monday rolled out first rake of stainless steel swanky coaches for the Nilgiris Mountain Railway.', 'The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has rolled out the first set of swanky steel coaches for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) on Monday.', 'The first formation of one rake comprising four new stainless steel coaches are heading to Mettupalayam in Salem Division of Southern Railway by rail.', 'The coaches that are used in the NMR now are more than four decades old and have been refurbished time and again. For the first time, the ICF took up the task of designing and developing new age steel-bodied coaches for the NMR. In all, 15 coaches are planned to be manufactured by ICF. Of these, 12 coaches will make three rakes each comprising of one first class, two second class seater and one luggage-cum-passenger car formation. The remaining three coaches will be spare coaches.', 'Replacing the old small windows, these new coaches have large windows for a panoramic view of the valley and meter gauge bogies with rack-pinion arrangement in leading axle having a total seating capacity of 146.', 'The first class has 32 seats, two second class - 44 seats each, second class luggage van (SLR) - 26 seats with a separate space for persons with disabilities to place their wheel chairs and sit. The coaches also have LED lights for use when the train passes through tunnels, hand brakes for pinion and also for wheels, covered space for brake man in every coach, inter vehicle coupler for driver-guard-brake man communication in the form of a microphone-cum-speaker at each cabin.', 'The remaining 11 coaches will be rolled out in a phased manner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Indian student dies in pool incident in Rhode Island University
['The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'In a tragic incident, a student from India died at a campus pool in the University of Rhode Island (URI) in the US. Suhail Habeeb, a graduate student in physics from India, died on Sunday following an incident that occurred in a Tootell Physical Education Center pool on the Kingston Campus, the University said.', 'The University is “saddened by the recent loss of one of our community members, Suhail Habeeb, it said. He had been enrolled at the University since Fall 2016.', 'Staff from Campus Recreation, URI Police Department, and URI Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responded to Tootell late afternoon on Sunday. URI Police and EMS were dispatched and arriving units found lifeguards performing CPR on Habeeb. He was transported by EMS to a local hospital where he was later identified and pronounced deceased.', 'The University extended its deepest condolences to Habeeb’s family, friends and colleagues.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Live | IAF strikes on JeM camp in Balakot: residents thought a quake hit the region
['Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing an election rally at Churu in Rajasthan.', 'India on Tuesday briefed envoys of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council about the IAF’s “non-military pre-emptive action” on the biggest training camp of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, which had claimed responsibility for the Pulwama terror attack.', 'Sources said Foreign Secretary Vijay K. Gokhale and secretaries in the External Affairs Ministry briefed foreign envoys, including those of the five permanent members (P-5) of the United Nations Security Council — the US, Britain, France, Russia and China.', 'Gokhale had met around 25 envoys, including those from P-5 nations, a day after the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed.', 'Residents in the quake-prone Balakot town in Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday said they were woken by “loud explosions” and thought a fresh tremor must have hit the region when Indian Air Force jets pounded a large terror training camp.', 'Balakot town in Pakistan’s north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province was destroyed during the 2005 Kashmir earthquake and was rebuilt with assistance from Saudi Arabia.', 'He said they thought an earthquake must have hit the region.', 'The Election commission of India held a press conference in Mumbai after a review of the election preparedness in Maharashtra. Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa says the Commission was keeping a watch on the developments on the border.', "Tuesday's air strikes was a departure from the surgical strikes of 2016 where the Army’s Special Forces crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on foot and attacked terror launch pads.", 'This development is significant that the IAF stuck on the Pakistani soil and the PoK and it is also the first time since the 1971 war that the IAF crossed over into the Pakistani air space. Even during the Kargil conflict, the IAF was under strict instructions from then Vajpayee-led NDA government to not cross the LoC.', 'Yousuf Azhar, who headed the Balakot-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror camp destroyed by Indian fighter jets in the pre-dawn strikes, is wanted by the CBI in the IC-814 hijacking case with a pending Interpol red corner notice against him since 2000, according to officials.', 'The red corner notice was issued on the request of the CBI against seven accused in the hijacking of the Indian Airlines plane from Kathmandu to Kandahar in southern Afghanistan on December 24, 1999 — Yousuf Azhar, Ibrahim Athar, Sunny Ahmed Qazi, Zahoor Ibrahim, Shahid Akhter, Sayed Shakir and Abdul Rauf, they said.', 'Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale, while briefing the media in the morning on the “intelligence-led operation” on the Pakistan-based terror group’s biggest training camp in Balakot, said the facility was headed by Yousuf Azhar alias Ustad Ghouri.', 'Brother-in-law of Jaish chief Masood Azhar, Yousuf Azhar with red corner notice number A-565/6-2000 and Rauf with notice number A-566/6-2000 are key conspirators in the Kandahar plane hijack case.', "Pakistan says it will respond to India’s claims of strikes on targets on its territory. A statement from the National Security Committee followed within hours of Mr. Gokhale's press briefing.", 'Forum strongly rejected Indian claim of targeting an alleged terrorist camp near Balakot and the claim of heavy casualties. Once again Indian government has resorted to a self serving, reckless and fictitious claim.', 'Pakistan will raise the issue of India’s “violation” of the Line of Control (LoC) at the United Nations and other international forums, says a media report, quoting sources.', 'The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan and attended by the top civil and military leadership, including Army chief General Qamar Jawed Bajwa, reports Geo TV.', 'Earlier in the day, a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was held at Mr. Modi’s residence. The meeting was attended by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and other top government officials.', "The pre-dawn air strikes by the Air Force's Mirage fighter jets was on a JeM training camp located in Balakot inside Pakistan and not the one in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), a senior IAF source said.", 'Balakot, about 40-50 km from the LoC, is situated in Mansehra district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is about two hours’ drive from Abbottabad.', 'The JeM camp was situated on the Kunhar river. "The camp offered possibility of aquatic training to terrorists also. The camp housed more than 200 terrorists. The trainers were ex-Army personnel," an intelligence official said.', 'Before the inception of the JeM,\xa0 the camp was used by the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, another terror outfit supported by Pakistan and active in Jammu and Kashmir.', 'Former Director of Public Affairs and Spokesperson to The National Security Council of Afghanistan, Tawab Ghorzang, in tweets, congratulates the IAF.', 'BJP MLAs were marshalled out of the Delhi Assembly for chanting pro-Modi slogans instead of hailing the Indian Air Force, says Speaker Ram Niwas Goel.', 'Who is Yusuf Azhar?', 'Maulana Yusuf Azhar is one of the terrorists who reportedly headed the JeM camp, which was struck by the IAF. He is reportedly brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, JeM chief.', 'Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi says India has committed an “aggression” by violating the LoC, and Islamabad has the "right to respond".', 'Debris of the UAV are seen near Nanghatad village in Abdasa taluka of Kutch, they say.', 'The official, however, refuses to elaborate further.', 'The Maharashtra Assembly passes a unanimous resolution congratulating the armed forces for carrying out air strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan.', 'The resolution is moved by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who lauds the Indian Air Force for its bravery.', 'Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) President Kamal Haasan welcomes the air strikes and ’saluted’ the valour of the “heroes.” The country is “proud of its heroes,” he says in a tweet.', 'So it is Balakote in KPK. That’s a strike deep inside Pakistan & is hugely embarrassing for them. Regardless of what the other side may claim was or wasn’t hit the planes crossed over, dropped their payload & flew back completely unscathed.', 'At a briefing, Mr. Gokhale says the JeM terror camp in Balakot was destroyed. "In an intelligence led operation in the early hours of today, India struck the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.\xa0 In this operation, a very large number of JeM terrorists, trainers, senior commanders and groups of jihadis who were being trained for fidayeen action were eliminated.\xa0 This facility at Balakot was headed by Maulana Yousuf Azhar (alias Ustad Ghouri), the brother-in-law of Masood Azhar, Chief of JeM," he says.', 'Despite many questions, Mr. Gokhale does not confirm the location of Balakot.', 'Human Resource Development Minister Prakash Javadekar hails the air strikes, saying the entire nation stands firmly behind the armed forces.', 'He says Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already given a free hand to the forces to take necessary action against following the Pulwama terror attack that left 40 CRPF personnel dead.', 'The Indian Army tweets a Hindi poem, which says, “If you are docile and polite before the enemy, he may consider you as a coward, the way Kauravas treated Pandavas".', 'The poem by Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ was tweeted by Additional Director General, Public Information on its official handle.', 'Mr. Qureshi will meet Prime Minister Imran Khan after the meeting.', 'Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha says high alert has been sounded in the State.', 'The DGP asks the SPs & range IGs to remain stationed at their respective headquarters.', 'Additional deployment has also been rushed to the International Border and LoC in Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch. "Yes, the security grid has been tightened," says an official on the condition of anonymity.', 'Meanwhile, restrictions are in place in parts of Srinagar and the Internet speed dialed down.', 'Minister of State for Agriculture Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirms on Twitter that the air strikes took place.', "An image of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's tweet.", 'Major General Asif Ghafoor, Director General of Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the media wing of the Pakistan Army, tweets, saying there are no casualties and no infrastructure damage.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are present at the meeting.', 'The Congress also lauds the role of the Indian Air Force in keeping Indians safe with its consistent and determined effort.', 'Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah says he will wait for official confirmation. "Wow, if this is true this was not a small strike by any stretch of imagination but will wait for official word, should any be forthcoming," he tweets.', 'Mr. Ghafoor also tweets images that he claims to be of the site of the alleged payload drop.', 'Payload of hastily escaping Indian aircrafts fell in open.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'A 5-judge constitution bench headed by CJI says that even if one per cent chance of mediation exists in the politically sensitive land dispute matter, it should be done.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


When will all liquor outlets be closed: HC
['The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday suo motu impleaded the Principal Secretary to the Home, Prohibition and Excise Department and the Managing Director of Tasmac as respondents in a public interest litigation petition that sought the closure of a Tasmac shop near Palliagraharam bus stop in Thanjavur.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar observed: “The ruling party gave an assurance in their party’s election manifesto that in a phased manner Tasmac shops would be closed in Tamil Nadu. However, many Tasmac shops are said to be opened in Tamil Nadu every day contrary to the assurance given by the ruling party in the poll manifesto for the elections held in 2016”.', 'Like in previous cases, the court put forth a set of queries for the State to respond. It wanted to know the number Tasmac shops set up prior to 2016, the number of outlets closed since then, shops opened after 2016 and the income earned since 2016 and when all the liquor shops would be closed down.', 'The court sought for a district-wise breakup on the data in the report.', 'It summoned the Managing Director of Tasmac asking him to inform the court on the details on March 4. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Mahendran of Thanjavur. It granted an interim injunction and adjourned the hearing to March 4.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM counters Stalin’s barb at PMK
['Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled the bronze statue of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at the AIADMK party office in Dharmapuri on Monday.', 'All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday countered Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin’s barbs at the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) for aligning with the ruling party, by questioning Mr. Stalin for the alliance with the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK).', 'At the 71st birth anniversary celebrations of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he said the AIADMK had formed a “mega alliance” and a “winning alliance”. According to him, Tamil Nadu would be safe under the “talented” leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.', 'At Harur, one of the 21 assembly constituencies where a bypoll is due, Mr. Palaniswami urged the cadres to teach a fitting lesson to the “traitors” who followed Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran.', 'Training his guns on Mr. Stalin, the Chief Minister said the DMK stood for dynastic politics and had scuttled development in the State. “Each time Karunanidhi made a trip to Delhi, it was to bargain for a post for his son, daughter and nephew,” he alleged.', 'This would be the first general elections faced by the party without Jayalalithaa and it was left to the cadres to work hard to ensure the victory of the AIADMK alliance, Mr. Palaniswami said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Erode Corpn. to establish 3.5-MW solar power plant
['With electricity charges increasing for the Erode Corporation year after year, the civic body has decided to establish a 3.5-MW solar power plant at ₹ 20.85 crore.', 'The civic body has been selected in Phase IV of the Smart Cities Mission by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India, for implementing projects worth ₹ 1,000 crore last year. Hence, to implement the projects, a special purpose vehicle, “Erode Smart City Limited”, was formed and registered under the Companies Act 2013.', 'The Corporation is utilising six high tension services from the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation with a power demand of 1,745 KVA. The average power consumption from the services is around 1.20 crore kilowatt hour per annum. Since the utility charges, including lighting and pumping, are increasing, majority of the revenue share has been spent on paying electricity charges.', 'To reduce the electricity charges, the civic body has decided to install solar power plant under the smart city projects. The return on investment is around 5.5 years and the plant requires very less operation and maintenance cost when compared to other non-conventional power plants. The proposed solar power plant is to be set up under the long-term open access method.', 'Based on the availability of land and evacuation capacity, the Corporation has proposed the 3.5-MW power plant outside the Area Based Development area as there is no space available within the area of the smart city for providing ground-mounted solar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Battery-operated car for Perundurai Medical College
['The battery-operated car at the IRT Perundurai Medical College in Perundurai.', 'To serve the needs of patients visiting the IRT Perundurai Medical College, a battery-operated car was inducted into service here on Sunday.', 'Under the MLA Local Area Development Fund, Perundurai MLA Thoppu. N.D. Venkatachalam purchased a car at ₹ 8 lakh that was handed over to the college to mark the 71st birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa here. The key was handed over to Dean M. Rajendran.', 'Mr. Venkatachalam said that the medical college was one of the premier government medical institutions where hundreds of patients visited every day. Hence, the battery-operated car would help the patients move inside the hospital premises.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


41 publications of The Hindu given to 50 government school libraries
['In Krishnagiri, the initiative was partly steered under the aegis of IVDP, a Krishnagiri-based NGO, that sponsored books for 50 government higher secondary schools.', 'IVDP has sponsored books worth ₹12.5 lakh for government schools in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore.', 'Collector S. Prabhakar presided over the event, and IVDP founder Kulandai Francis took part.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gobi GH gets modern equipment
['Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan inaugurating the new facilities at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam on Monday.', 'To ensure advanced medical treatment for patients, equipment worth ₹ 1.47 crore were commissioned at the Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam here on Monday.', 'Also, Samsung Electronics sponsored modern digital x-ray machine (₹ 83.03 lakh), ultra sound scan machine (₹ 40.18 lakh) and refrigerator, LED television and air conditioners (₹ 1.91 lakh) to the hospital. The Minister inaugurated these machines for the public use.', 'Deputy Director (Health Services) S. Soundammal, and Chief Civil Surgeon Medical Officer P.T. Anandan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Integrated apparel manufacturing park to provide jobs to 7,000 people
['The district’s first integrated apparel manufacturing park called “Gobi Apparel Park” that is to come up at ₹ 106.58 crore at Kolapalur village at Gobichettipalayam is expected to provide jobs to 7,000 persons.', 'Under funding from the Ministry of Textiles of the Government of India and under the Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP) of the State Government, the park is being established that will have common facilities and other infrastructure to house 12 companies.', 'While the foundation was laid for establishing 11 companies, one company was inaugurated by Minister for School Education, Youth and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, Tirupur MP V. Sathyabama, MLAs and other officials here on Monday.', 'Mr. Sengottaiyan said the park would come up on 80 acre and provide jobs directly to 7,000 people.', 'The park would be provided with all the basic amenities, effluent and sewage treatment plants, uninterrupted power supply and wider roads. Also, quality testing centre, skill development centre, and modern accommodation for 3,000 works would also be established.', 'The Minister said that children’s home, sports ground, old age home, community hall and other facilities would also be established in the park. He said that 2,500 people would be trained in the park every year and they could secure jobs anywhere in the country.', 'Mr. Karuppannan said the other 11 companies would be established soon and called upon entrepreneurs to utilise the facilities in the park.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Collector receives water award
['Union Minister Nitin Gadkari honours Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation has honoured Sivaganga Collector J. Jayakanthan with ‘National Water Award – 2019’.', 'Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways, Shipping and Water Resources Nitin Gadkari presented the award to the Collector at the National Water Awards presentation ceremony held in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Collector won third prize in ‘rejuvenation/creation of water bodies’ category in southern region comprising Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The award carried a citation.', 'The national water award was recognition for his efforts to restore and rejuvenate several water bodies in Sivaganga district. The district administration had applied for the award only in that category and it would strive to get prizes in other categories as well in the coming years, he added.', 'The Collector won the Centre’s appreciation for rejuvenating three major ooranies — Mayana Oorani, Chetti Oorani and Teppakulam — after evicting 25 encroachments and desilting their inlet and outlet channels.', 'The Sivaganga Teppakulam, located in the centre of the district, brimmed with water after a gap of 26 years thanks to the restoration works.', 'On being diverted, water from Periyar channel reached the tank, traversing more than 35 km. Several tanks and ponds and their supply channels were also desilted in the district, according to the district officials.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Public welcome to join as FoP: Theni SP
['Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran addressing students aspiring to join as Friends of Police in Theni on Monday.', 'Welcoming the public initiative to be ‘Friends of Police’, Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said their role would be immensely useful and commendable to society.', 'Addressing a large gathering of students and residents, he said with rise in population, problems were growing everywhere. While a majority of them could be solved then and there, any neglect of the issues would lead to unwanted conflicts.', 'On such occasions, the Friends of Police (FoPs) could play a pivotal role in bringing peace instantly. A call to the police or any specific officer would be vital, Mr. Baskaran said and added that most of the problems were either petty or personal in nature.', 'As for road accidents reported in the district, the SP said rash and negligent driving, drunken driving and lack of sleep were major factors. While educational institutions and service organisations came in handy in educating road users, the government too, through Road Safety Week, disseminated about the need to follow rules.', 'Further, Mr. Baskaran said the district police had purchased gadgets such as breath-analyser, speed radar guns and planned to install more mobile barricades and put up CCTV cameras at vantage locations.', 'The FoPs were also told about their role on how to handle emergencies in the event of a road accident. Similarly, police officers from the law and order wing also shared inputs expected from FoPs. The cell phone numbers of police stations, Inspectors and DSPs were shared with the members. The FoPs were told to download the App of the emergency vehicle service operator - 108 - as it would help in identifying the location of the caller and rush the vehicle to the spot.', 'As many as 357 men and 180 women participated in the meeting. Both men and women police officers from various police stations and sub-division were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Those involved in Jayalalithaa’s death will go behind bars: Stalin
['Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin on Monday said those involved in the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa would find themselves behind bars if his party was voted to power.', 'Speaking at a gram sabha meeting at Melakootudangadu in Ottapidaram constituency, he said updates regarding the health of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi was given twice every day, while the health status of the AIADMK leader was shrouded in mystery during her hospitalisation.', 'He slammed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for not responding to allegations about his involvement in the murder of five persons in the Kodanad case. Mr. Stalin said the government had killed 13 persons in the anti-Sterlite agitation in a planned manner. The DMK had been stressing policy decision against the industry, but the government did not seem to be interested.', 'The recommendations of retired High Court judge M.S. Janarthanam would be implemented and demands of Devendra Kula Vellalar community would be fulfilled. “The current government has discarded the committee’s findings. But the DMK will pass a Government Order to fulfil their demands,” he said.', 'Women who attended the gram sabha meeting put forth a number of issues like lack of road facilities, drinking water, lack of revolving funds for self-help groups, irregular supply at fair price shops, among others.', 'Speaking about water issues, Mr. Stalin said the DMK implemented the Hogenakkal, Vellore and Ramanathapuram combined water schemes when he was the Minister of Local Administration. The schemes helped in bringing down water-borne diseases caused by consumption of contaminated drinking water.', 'A number of schemes such as old age pension and disbursement of revolving funds to SHGs, launched by fromer Chief Minister Karunanidhi, were not being implemented properly by the current regime, he added.', 'Earlier, he visited the family of Subramaniyan, the CRPF jawan who was killed in Pulwama attack, at Savalaperi, and consoled his family. He gave a compensation of ₹ 2 lakh to the family members. In the evening, he also participated a gram sabha meeting at Vembar in Vilathikulam constituency. MP Kanimozhi, former Ministers I. Periyasamy, K.N. Nehru and Anitha R. Radhakrishnan were present.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Self-immolation bid by woman thwarted at Collectorate
['The Collectorate, which witnessed gruesome self-immolation of a usury victim and his family members 16 months ago, was about to witness a similar incident on Monday when a woman attempted to immolate herself.', 'After usury victim Eskkimuthu of Kasidharmam near Tenkasi immolated himself and his family members on the Collectorate premises in October 2017 while the Collector was receiving petitions from the public at the weekly grievance day meeting, security was beefed up on the Collecotrate premises. To ensure regularised entry of public into the Collectorate with inflammable materials, some of the entry points were closed permanently.', 'Moreover, the petitioners are frisked thoroughly before they enter the Collectorate through the main entrance to submit petitions to the Collector on Mondays. Still, citing official apathy, self-immolation bids are made by aggrieved petitioners near the main entrance.', 'On Monday, A. Rajammal, 65, of Tenkasi, who managed to bring kerosene till the District Development Council Hall, splashed it all over her body. But before she lighted the matchstick, those standing nearby thwarted the attempt and alerted the police.', 'During enquiry, the woman told the police that she had given money to a few people in Tenkasi for buying a house. “When they failed to keep the promise, I asked them to return my money. But they not only refused but also threatened me. I filed a complaint with Tenkasi police but they did not take any action. I also gave petitions to the Superintendent of Police three times and twice to the Collector. But they also did not take action. Hence, I decided to kill myself. Though public thwarted my attempt today, I’ll kill myself soon if the police do not take action against those who cheated me,” Mrs. Rajammal said. The police took the woman to Palayamkottai police station for enquiry and released her later.', 'Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling the State’s health helpline, ‘104,’ or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Repair faulty overhead tank,mitigate water crisis: villagers
['Condemning erratic water supply, a group of residents from Sivanthipuram, a village on the bank of the Tamirabharani near Ambasamudram, submitted a petition at the Collectorate here on Monday.', 'The petitioners said they were getting drinking water once in six days only though their village is situated right on the bank of the Tamirabharani and only a few km away from Papanasam dam through which the perennial river reaches the plains from the Western Ghats. An overhead tank was constructed two years ago for improving drinking water supply. But due to faulty construction, the tank could not be used as there was a profuse leakage of water during the trial stage itself. Now cracks had developed in the structure owing to extreme heat.', 'When contacted, officials said regular water supply could be ensured only after the cracks were cemented. So, the work should be expedited, the villagers said.', 'Members of Tirunelveli District Pothunala Sangam, led by Mohammed Ayub, said ceiling fans in Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School were switched off by teachers so as to minimise power consumption. As the children were put to much discomfort in the sweltering summer heat, teachers should be instructed to switch on the ceiling fans during class hours. The toilets should also be properly maintained with adequate water facility and doors, they said.', 'Members of Suthamalli Bharathi Nagar Pothunala Sangam said the railways had constructed a wall across a path used by residents for the past several decades to take bodies to a cremation ground. The district administration should hold talks with the railway administration and make efforts to ensure that they could continue to use the path.', 'A group of students of Government Law College, Tirunelveli, staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate to highlight their demands of naming Madurai airport after Immanuel Sekaran and removing Devendrakula Vellaalar from the list of Scheduled Castes.', 'Members of Thamizh Puligal, a Dalit organisation, staged a demonstration demanding retrieval of a ‘public utility land’ at Kasimajorpuram, which had been “encroached upon” by an individual.', 'After the State government announced free house sites would be given to below-poverty-line families living on government poramboke lands, a few hundred petitions were submitted on Monday seeking land for constructing house. Hundreds of petitions were also submitted seeking the State government’s special financial assistance of ₹2,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Officials start sealing illegal buildings
['Confusion and uneasy moments prevailed after municipal authorities stepped up action to seal buildings violating norms in Kodaikanal in Dindigul district on Monday.', 'Following a directive from the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, the officials informed the court that around 1,400 buildings, including commercial structures, dwellings and private clinics, violated the norms.', 'When the court fixed an action plan to clean up illegal and unauthorised construction, officials held out the assurance that they would follow the instructions and file a compliance report soon.', 'As part of the assurance, officials sealed 44 buildings and the drive was intensified with more field staff being deployed, a senior official from the district administration said.', 'As per law, the violators were served notice and, subsequently, they were sealed. “The next step will be to demolish the illegal portion of the building,” said an official.', 'Meanwhile, some of the traders and office-bearers of the hotelier association appealed to the officials to stop the action as a section of them had approached the HC bench seeking relief.', 'Not in a mood to relent, the officials at the municipal office here said they were proceeding as per norms and would file their reports with the court directly. “Any failure would mean contempt of court,” they said.', 'A large posse of police personnel were deployed with the officials.', 'Activist and NGOs, voicing for a clean and green Kodai, welcomed the move of the HC Bench. They also wanted it to order a probe against corrupt officials who were “soft” with the violators all these years. “Their ill-gotten wealth should be confiscated,” they said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Trump Org slams probe; Trump Jr. calls feds ‘Stalinist’
['President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organisation fired back at investigations into its business on Monday, demanding a House panel end its probe because of ethical conflicts.', 'Separately, President Donald Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., accused federal prosecutors in a “Fox & Friends” interview of resorting to “Stalinist” tactics as they investigate the president’s inaugural committee and company.', 'The Trump Organization said in a letter to the House Judiciary Committee that a lawyer assisting its investigation, Barry Berke, has tainted the panel’s work because he is partner at a law firm that has represented the family company for more than a quarter of a century.', 'The letter to House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler of New York demands the panel cease its investigation and hand over all his emails, text messages and other communication with the committee.', 'The U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan declined to comment. Joseph Stalin led the former Soviet Union from the mid-1920s until 1953.', 'Prosecutors are investigating, among other potential crimes, whether foreigners illegally contributed to inaugural events in 2017.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


Contract labourers sacked by NTPL seek reinstatement
['Seeking solution: NTPL contract workers at the Thoothukudi Collectorate on Monday.', 'Members of Central Organisation for Electricity Employees-CITU submitted a petition at the Collectorate seeking reinstatement of contract labourers of the NLC Tamil Nadu Power Limited (NTPL), who were fired recently.', 'S. Appadurai, secretary of the association, said 40 contract employees of the NTPL were sent off recently, in violation of an order by the Regional Labour Commissioner in an industrial dispute, saying the status quo should prevail. The contract workers have not been made permanent, and are given a much lower pay despite their work being perennial in nature, he said.', 'Members of CPI(M), led by Kovilpatti party town secretary Murugan and Thoothukudi town secretary Raja, sought the widening of the Manthithoppu Road in Kovilpatti citing the problem of traffic congestion on especially narrow sections of the road. The party members also demanded that government and private buses plying between Thoothukudi and Tiruchendur should halt at Mullakadu, where about 500 passengers, including school children, used the service.', 'Around 10 transwomen submitted a petition seeking jobs at anganwadi centres. They said that they had been applying for the job over the last two years and sought their appointment this year.', 'Vinoth Kumar, district secretary of PMK, sought action against those involved in sand mining near Vaippar after getting permission for using savadu soil (fertile sediment). He said that a resident of Dindigul, who had received permission for using the soil on patta lands, was digging up to 50 ft and lifting the sand, besides mining from the riverbed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmers complain of industrial pollution
['Residents of Moppiripalayam showing samples of the contaminated water at the weekly grievances redress day meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday.', 'The Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association that is affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha on Monday urged the district administration to act against the industry that caused pollution at Moppiripalayam village in Sulur Taluk.', 'In its petition submitted at the weekly grievances day meeting on Monday, the Association said that the effluents discharged from the company into a well on its premises resulted in ground water pollution and therefore affected agriculture lands, farm wells and the cattle that were dependent on ground water.', 'It wanted to know how the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board could accord permission for running such a polluting industry, the Association asked and sought action.', 'The residents also carried samples of water taken from the area.', 'Representatives of the 50-odd residents of Sri Rayar Nagar, Siddhapudur, on Monday petitioned the district administration seeking title deeds (patta). In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day, the petitioners said they had been paying land tax for over 35 years and property tax to the Corporation since 20 years. Former MLA V.K. Lakshmanan, following his visit to the area in 1996, wrote to the district administration, for their title deeds.', 'Though the then District Collector promised to issue the title deeds, the administration could do so following a court order.', 'But, of late, a few persons posing as government officials were forcing them to vacate the houses on one pretext or the other and the petitioners said that they suspected it to be the handiwork of people who wanted to grab their land.', 'Their inquiries with the Revenue Department officials concerned revealed that there was no move to evict them from their houses.', 'When they sought a few details like land classification of the area to the officials concerned, the petitioners said they were redirected to the Coimbatore Corporation.', 'They also said that people who lived in neighbouring colonies had got title deeds from the government and therefore the district administration should take steps to give them the deeds as well.', 'Sri Lakshmi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has appealed to the district administration to give up the move to establish a Tasmac-run liquor outlet in the area The Association said the access road to the area was a 13-foot wide cart track, which was also the road for residents of Nehru Nagar, Assisi Nagar, Narayana Nagar and a few other residential colonies.', 'Members of the Coimbatore District Association for the Deaf on Monday complained to the district administration that they were not getting the monthly financial assistance of ₹ 1,000 that the State Government gave them.', 'In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day meeting on Monday, the hearing impaired people said they wanted the State Government to provide job opportunities for those hearing impaired people who had completed class eight or 10.', 'The youth wing of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has alleged mismanagement of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. In its petition to the district administration, submitted at the weekly grievance day meting on Monday, it said that the hospital administration had given the maintenance, contract for construction work, and purchase of essential items to a Ukkadam resident.', 'In awarding the works, a CMCH hospital clerk acted as an intermediary.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two murdered in separate incidents
['Biji (21), a daily wage worker from the Nilgiris, was beaten to death by his friend in a drunken brawl at a place on Madukkarai market road on Sunday evening.', 'The Podanur police have arrested Mujibur Rahman (22), a resident of Arignar Anna Nagar on Eachanari road, in connection with the murder. The police said that Biji, Rahman and Reegan of Kuniyamuthur had consumed alcohol together on Sunday evening.', 'According to the police, Rahman attempted to take money from Biji’s pocket in inebriated state.', 'When Biji resisted the attempt, a provoked Rahman took a stone and hit him on the head.', 'The injured man was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died without responding to the treatment in the early hours of Monday. The Police have arrested Rahman on murder charges.', 'In a second incident, a marriage broker from Palakkad district in Kerala, was stabbed to death in front of his wife near Pollachi on Sunday. M. Subramani (58), a native of Chittur in Palakkad, was murdered by a man hailing from K. Nagoor near Pollachi following a quarrel.', 'According to the police, S. Selvaraj (42) of Sendhukinnaru Street near K. Nagoor had called Subramani to look for a marriage alliance for a known person.', "Subramani and his wife Sathiyavani (48) went to Selvaraj's house around 11.30 a.m.", 'The police said that Subramani and Selvaraj picked up a quarrel while checking possible alliances. In the course of the quarrel, Selvaraj assaulted Subramani in chest with fist.', 'Neighbours rushed to the house hearing the cries of Sathiyavani and called an ambulance. However, he died before the ambulance arrived.', 'The body was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The Gomangalam police are searching for Selvaraj.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


As summer season arrives, Forest Dept. on toes to control wildfires
['The fire which was reported in the limits of Madukkarai forest range on Sunday.', 'The Forest Department has stepped into the most challenging season of the year with the summer triggering incidents of forest fire and crop damages by wild animals that stray out from forest in search of water and fodder.', 'With the Department staff forced to engage in fire prevention activities, there is a shortage of manpower to prevent straying of wild animals from the forests, especially wild elephants.', 'Forest fringes of Madukkarai forest range witnessed minor fire for at least three consecutive days. Similarly, fire spread to forest fringes in Marudhamalai foothills on Sunday and Thoovaipathi-Panapalli areas of Anaikatti on Monday.', 'According to senior officials of the Department, more than 130 Anti-poching Watchers (APWs) and nine-member Rapid Response Team (RRT) are actively involved in the front in preventing forest fire in the Coimbatore Forest Division. They are supported by forest watchers, forest guards, foresters and forest range officers.', 'Along with incidents of forest fire, straying of wild animals especially elephants have started in several forest ranges. This was primarily due to shortage of fodder and water in forests.', 'In Thadagam valley, from where two wild elephants Vinayagan and Chinna Thambi were recently captured and translocated, is again witnessing regular crop raids by wild elephants.', 'Farmers from Thadagam said that another giant tusker whom people have named Komban is straying into agricultural fields on a regular basis.', 'Though elephant expert Ajay Desai, consultant to WWF-India, had recommended the Department to continue negative conditioning measures to prevent straying of other elephants, kumkis were withdrawn from the field.', 'The two kumkis of the Coimbatore Forest Division John and Cheran are at Chadivayal elephant camp where they are currently undergoing the 48-day-long rejuvenation camp. Similarly, 25 elephants of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are also part of the annual camp at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp. “These elephants will not be shifted from the camp unless there is a demanding situation”, an official said.', 'Meanwhile, P. Kandasamy of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (Non-political) said that District Collector K. Rajamani has assured to hold a tripartite meeting before March, 15 which is expected to become a platform to discuss issues such as human-animal conflict and damages to crops and lives. “This has been a long-time demand of the farmers and the new Collector has assured to hold the meeting. We hope that the meeting will address our grievances and bring scientific remedies to control human-animal conflict,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmer donates PM- Kisan scheme money to Govt. to dredge tank
['Anticipating the transfer of the first instalment of ₹ 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, a farmer on Monday donated the money to the district administration for dredging a water body near his village.', 'At the weekly grievance day meeting, K. Velusamy of Oonjapalayam, near Kaniyur, in Sulur Taluk, walked in with a demand draft for ₹ 2,000 drawn in favour of the District Collector. As Collector K. Rajamani was not present, he presented the demand draft with his petition to the District Revenue Officer, D. Ramaduraimurugan.', 'The farmer clarifies that he has not returned the money or was against the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, under which the Government of India transfers ₹ 6,000 each to farmers with less than five acre.', 'He says that farmers in his village have for long been knocking on the doors of the Public Works Department, district administration and State Government and petitioning State and Central leaders and ministers to have the tank dredged.', 'The farmers also petitioned Union Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, Arjun Ram Meghwal to include the tank under the Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies scheme, he says.', 'On hearing about him giving money to the Collector, many other farmers have expressed willingness to do so and soon there will be hundreds of them giving ₹ 2,000 to the district administration to dredge the tank, he adds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Icons of Coimbatore award presented
['Mr. Senthil said his group has been identifying persons for the award since 2013. Mr. Shaar said Syrian students were keen on pursuing their higher education in India because of the hospitable nature of the people and the culture. At present, there were 400 students in various Indian institutions. He also said that Syria looked forward to rebuilding the country with Indian support.', 'The recipients of the award were Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation, Manickam Athappa Gounder, Chairman, MAK Group of Companies, Jaya Mahesh, Founder, Jaya Mahesh Body Sculpting Therapy, Vignesh Prabhu, Illusionist, R. Manikandan, coordinator, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu, Manimekalai Mohan, Founder, SSVM Institutions, Nanjil Nadan, Tamil writer, A. Rajkumar, Chairman and Director, Clinical Operations, GKNM Hospital, Rajesh Govindarajulu, jeweller and columnist, R. Sathy, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Madukkarai, K. Priyanka, chess champion, A. Kanniyappan, Para Olympian, Balaji, radio jockey, R. Raveendran, Secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, and S. Vengojayaprasad, Diabetologist and Consultant Physician, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.', 'R. Manickam, Chief Executive Officer, Rathinam Group of Institutions, presided over the function.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Overwhelming response to essay contest
['Students from schools across Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts took part in the competition. The essays were scrutinised for language, ideas, creativity, relevance and presentation.', 'Hundred essays were finalised for prizes, from which the top five were given prizes at function held on Sunday at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.', 'President of Nanneri Kazhagam Iakako.Subramaniam spoke on how the association had strengthened over the past four years and established a connect with the young generation.', 'Writer Bava Chelladurai shared his life experiences with the gathering at the function. He was happy that nearly 75 % of the winners were girls. Emphasising the need to uplift the underprivileged, he said that instead of the rich, the protagonist of any writer’s work was a person who led a simple life with good attitude and upholding morality.', 'The first prize in the essay contest went to M. Kumudhini from Thambu Matriculation Higher Secondary School, the second and third spots were bagged by A. Sundharavalli from Sachidanandha Jothi Nikethan and S. Swetha from Venkatalakshmi Matriculation Higher Secondary School respectively.', 'A. Pranav from Adwaith Matriculation Higher Secondary School and M.V. Yoga Shri from Venkatalakshmi Higher Secondary School were the special prize winners.', 'The event was conducted with Vijaya Pathipagam, Udumalai.Com, Cotsvilla Resorts, Brookfields Mall, Sri Krishna Sweets and Lenco Timewear as the prize partners, Zone Hotel as the hospitality partner, Hello FM as the radio partner and Simplicity as the digital partner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Forest Dept. bars tourists from walking to Doddabetta Peak
['A rise in the number of Indian gaurs in the Doddabetta area, has forced the Forest Department to ban tourists from walking a two-km stretch to the Doddabetta Peak, one of the major tourist attractions here.', 'So far, tourists could walk to the peak from the Forest Department check post on the main road. Now, they will have to either hire vehicles or use shuttle services offered by the department to get there.', 'Assistant Conservator of Forests (Nilgiris Division) K. Saravanakumar said the department, which manages the Doddabetta Eco-Development Committee, had taken the decision to ban visitors from walking to the peak owing to safety concerns. “Indian gaurs are spotted regularly along the stretch, and there is a concern that visitors could get injured, or worse, in a confrontation with a wild animal,” he said. The department was also taking action against picnickers and other visitors who ventured into the forests for taking photographs. However, the department’s decision to close the badly-damaged road from the check post to the peak to walkers has caused concern among residents, including those residing in the Mel Kodappamund and Gorishola areas. They fear this could result in gridlocks along the Ooty-Kotagiri Road during peak tourist season.', 'The forest department said it was aware of the concerns and was coming up with strategies to manage the traffic bound for the peak during the tourism season this summer.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Halting of buses at wrong spots hits traffic
['Over the years, Madurai-Melur Road around Mattuthavani has a significant development after the (now re-named) MGR bus stand came into existence. The markets for flower, foodgrains, vegetable and fruits and the omni bus stand along with scores of hotels and lodges have added to faster development of the area on both sides of the highway.', 'Despite the widened highway, traffic congestion during peak hours has become unavoidable between the Industrial Estate junction and Uthangudi junction. A series of bus stops and junctions too have slowed down the vehicular movement.', 'And adding to the traffic jam is halting of buses, mini-buses and autorickshaws on the highway opposite the entrance of the bus stand.', 'With passengers stand on the edge of the carriage way, buses halt on the middle of the road blocking the way for other vehicles following them. This includes buses from K.K. Nagar side attempting to enter the bus stand and other vehicles trying to make a u-turn back into the city side.', 'Vehicles coming out of RTO Office Road and those from Melur Road trying to cross this junction towards RTO Office road are also not spared.', 'Amidst total chaos, vehicles start moving at a slower pace as and when the buses that had halted resume their journey. But, the same blockade returns to the spot within seconds as another bus halts at the same spot.', 'The city police have somehow managed to prevent share autorickshaws from picking or dropping passengers at this point.', 'The crew of the buses also stop here with an eye on their daily collection. “It is the traffic police who bear the brunt when traffic gets choked,” he added.', 'A drive for a week or fortnight will end this menace that leads to traffic congestion up to 120 Feet Road junction and further.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Maha Sivarathri fest begins with flag hoisting
['Maha Sivarathri festival begins at Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'The 12-day Masi Maha Sivarathri festival began with flag-hoisting at Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram on Monday.', 'Hundreds of devotees witnessed the ceremony conducted amid chanting of mantras and rituals by temple priests led by chief priest Vijay Anand.', 'Joint Commissioner of the temple G.S. Mangayarkarasi and assistant divisional engineer K. Mayilvahanan were among those present at the ceremony.', 'Maha Sivarathri would be observed on March 4 — the eighth day — with a procession of Swamy and Ambal around the four streets of the temple in silver car.', 'Besides locals, sadhus and pilgrims from north India were expected to visit the temple on the night of March 4 and throughout the 12 days, the officials said.', 'The temple authorities and Rameswaram municipality had made arrangements for drinking water. Sanitary facilities were also in place.', 'The district police had made elaborate security arrangements and installed CCTV cameras at all strategic points to regulate the crowd during the festival.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Musical talent showcased well
['He explained how only a few languages had a continuous history of more than two thousand years, and, among them, Tamil was an active, classical language, which became a way of life .', 'The second programme of the day was a vocal concert of B. Gopalakrishnan, who was accompanied by R. Govindarajan on the violin, G. Jagadeesh Aravind on mrudangam, Avantiraj on khanjira and D. Bharadwaj on the moharsing.', 'S. Padmanabhan.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sub-Collector shifted for ‘acting tough against illegal sand miners’
['Paramakudi Sub-Collector B. Vishnu Chandran, who was taking stern action against illegal sand mining in the revenue division, has been transferred and posted as Nagercoil Sub-Collector.', 'Administrative reasons are cited for his transfer a few days after he launched a crackdown on illegal sand mining at Kadugusandai in Kadaladi block and ‘seized’ five excavators used for illegal sand mining.', 'Though officials claimed that Mr. Vishnu Chandran was transferred in tune with the procedure to shift officials who had completed three years of service in a particular place in view of the coming elections, local sources said he was transferred for taking on the sand mining lobby as he hardly completed one and a half years as Paramakudi Sub-Collector.', 'His wife Asha Ajit, who was working as Sub-Collector in Devakottai in Sivaganga district, was also transferred to Tiruchendur as Sub-Collector.', 'R. Senthilvel Murugan, Deputy Tahsildar, Kadaladi, was also transferred as he often conducted surprise raids and stopped sand quarrying at Kadugusandai, the sources said. He was posted as Deputy Tahsildar, Elections, Thiruvadanai.', 'Official sources said a team of revenue officials, led by Mr. Chandran, seized five excavators and detained them at the site after removing ‘some tools’ and immobilising them, but the highly influential ‘miners’ ‘took away’ the machines. Village Administrative Officer K. Jayakodi lodged a complaint against the permit holder, but Sayalkudi police did not register an FIR.', 'The police said the FIR was not registered as the excavators were not in their possession and they could not be brought to the police station. On the other hand, the police ‘allowed’ the sand miners to move away the machines, the sources said. The police had also released two two-wheelers seized and kept in the police station, they claimed.', 'Meanwhile, hearing a public interest litigation, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court stayed quarrying at Kadugusandai.', 'The court also stayed quarrying at Poolankulam, passing interim orders on another petition.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Key establishments exempted
['Following the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court’s order to crack down on building plan violations, the Kodaikanal Municipality resorted to a lock-and-seal procedure. However, with the Master Plan for Kodaikanal yet to be revised, certain establishments were given relief till then.', 'A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and G. R. Swaminathan heard a batch of petitions that sought relief for an interim period. Considering the plea, the bench allowed educational institutions, residential buildings, government buildings, hospitals, banks, small shops like bakeries, grocery stores, small eateries and saloons to be exempted for now.', 'However, it instructed the municipality to go ahead with the lock-and-seal procedure with regard to lodges, cottages, hotels and resorts built in violation of the building plan. It further added that even religious establishments should not be spared if they were built in violation of the plan. Be it temple, mosque or church, those built in violations of the plan had to be locked and sealed, the court said.', 'The State had informed the court that the violators were identified, following the crackdown on them. The court, taking into account the submissions, wondered if Kodaikanal was burdened with people from all over pouring in to settle down in the town. Maybe, there should be a regulation on settlement in Kodaikanal, it said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Gramalaya begins project to prevent open defecation
['Gramalaya, a city-based non-governmental organisation involved in water management and public sanitation, has begun a project to prevent open defecation and dumping of solid and liquid waste in the Cauvery river in Musiri town panchayat of Tiruchi district.', 'Supported by corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of Merrill Lynch Capital Ltd., Mumbai, Gramalaya has already helped 132 families of Nataraja Nagar in Ward 11 to build 100 smart toilets (bathroom attached toilets with twin leach pit). This has been accompanied by a hygiene awareness programme to make all the women and adolescent girls in the village switch over to reusable cloth sanitary napkins.', 'The NGO has been sanctioned ₹1.90 crore by Merrill Lynch Capital to extend the programme through the entire Tiruchi district covering 14 blocks. So far 9,604 packets of reusable cloth pads worth ₹30 lakh have been distributed to the women in Tiruchi district through its social marketing approach.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


700 scooters handed over to beneficiaries
['Food Minister R. Kamaraj and CollectorT. Anand with the beneficiaries of ‘Amma Scooter’ scheme at Tiruvarur Collectorate on Monday.', 'Seven hundred scooters were handed over to beneficiaries under the Amma Scooter Scheme here on Monday. Handing over the vehicles to the beneficiaries, Food Minister R. Kamaraj claimed that schemes such as this where subsidy is being given for scooters purchased by working women and others have been received well by the people.', 'With the distribution of 700 scooters today, the target – 1,825 scooters - fixed for the district under this scheme has been achieved. A sum of ₹1.75 crore would be released as subsidy to the beneficiaries.', 'In addition to this, improvised scooters for differently-abled persons numbering 72 and motor fitted sewing machines and hearing aid equipment, worth ₹23.12 lakh was also distributed on the occasion.', 'Earlier, the Minister distributed priceless bicycles to a few students at a function held at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Kudavasal.', 'Speaking on the occasion, he said that a total of 7,479 bicycles would be distributed to students studying in seven schools in Nannilam, Kudavasal and Valangaiman Unions at a cost of ₹91.79 lakh.', 'Collector T. Anand and other senior officials were present.', 'The Minister also declared open an exhibition highlighting the welfare schemes and the achievements of the government at the Tiruvarur bus stand.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Take to entrepreneurship, engineering graduates told
['Students ought to make the most of ‘Make in India’ programme and other opportunities provided by the Central and State Governments to transform into entrepreneurs, Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University P. Manisankar told graduating students of Anna University on Sunday.', 'Delivering the Graduation Day address of the University College of Engineering, BIT Campus, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pattukottai and Thirukuvalai, Prof. Manisankar urged students to develop qualities of persistence, commitment, initiative, efficiency, goal-setting, management ability, self-confidence, risk-taking ability and team work to succeed as entrepreneurs.', 'Students must become job-providers rather than seeking jobs, he emphasised.', 'Prof. Manisankar joined the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, Chennai, M. K. Surappa in presenting degrees to a total of 1,628 undergraduate and post-graduate students.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Morning Digest: Cong. and BJP want tribal eviction order reviewed, NIA says owner of Pulwama attack vehicle has joined Jaish, and more
['The presidents of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rahul Gandhi and Amit Shah, have directed the Chief Ministers of the States ruled by their parties to file a review petition in the Supreme Court over its ruling ordering the eviction of tribals unable to provide sufficient proof of claim to forest land.', 'The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday said it had tracked down the owner of the car used by the suspected Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM) suicide bomber in the February 14 attack on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy in Pulwama. Forty jawans were killed and five injured in the attack. The owner of the vehicle has since joined the terror outfit, the agency said.', 'For the first time after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was made a Congress general secretary, she will share a stage with her mother and party leader, Sonia Gandhi, along with party president Rahul Gandhi, in Gujarat on Thursday. The meeting will be preceded by a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the top decision-making body of the Congress, at Sardar Patel Memorial here.', 'Families of forcefully disappeared persons in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province observed a hartal on Monday, demanding justice for war-time human rights abuses. According to sources in the northern districts, most schools, shops and business establishments were shut, in an act of solidarity with the relatives of missing persons, some of whom have been agitating continuously for two years now in Kilinochchi district.', 'Britain has an obligation to end its administration of the Chagos Archipelago — home to the U.S. military base of Diego Garcia — and complete the process of decolonisation of Mauritius, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague has said in an advisory opinion that is a significant legal victory for Mauritius and other nations, including India, that supported its case.', 'The Supreme Court’s order to evict, over the next five months, occupants of forest lands who failed to make a successful claim for tenure under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, has once again highlighted the dilemma of reconciling inalienable tribal rights with biodiversity conservation. When the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act was passed, it was with the wholly welfarist goal of making these communities partners in conservation.', 'G.R. Karthikeyan, father of India’s first Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan, was honoured with the Lifetime Achievement award at the FMSCI annual awards function on Monday. Narain spoke about his father’s inspiring presence in his career and as one of the pioneers in establishing a framework for Indian motorsport.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Half of N.Korea defectors suffered violence, but rights not a top summit issue
['On the top of their agenda is the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, and what concessions the United States might offer in return for North Korea steps.', 'About half of 451 North Korean defectors questioned in a survey endured physical violence at the hands of North Korean authorities, a rights group said on Tuesday, as leader Kim Jong Un prepared to meet U.S. President Donald Trump for a summit.', "U.S. lawmakers called Mr. Kim the “leader of perhaps the world's most repressive regime” on Sunday, but analysts say that as in the leaders' first summit, in Singapore in June, human rights are unlikely to be addressed when they meet this week.", 'Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim are due to meet in the Vietnamese capital on Wednesday and Thursday, eight months after their historic summit, the first between a sitting U.S. president and a North Korean leader.', 'On the top of their agenda is the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, and what concessions the United States might offer in return for North Korea steps.', "North Korea's poor human rights record is not likely to figure prominently.", 'The survey, conducted between 2015 and 2018 and released by Seoul-based Transitional Justice Working Group, found that three out of four North Korean defectors had, before they fled North Korea, experienced physical violence or the death of close family members by execution or starvation, forced repatriation, arrest or detention.', 'About 48 % of the respondents said they had personally experienced violence perpetrated by the North Korean authorities, including beating, torture, rape and other sexual assault.', 'In a recent interview, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is in Hanoi for the summit, reaffirmed U.S. commitment to speak out and act against human rights violations, including those in North Korea.', 'However, the fact that human rights do not seem to be on the agenda for U.S.-North Korea talks, has drawn notice from around the world.', "U.S. lawmakers also mentioned North Korea's human rights violations in a letter to Trump on Sunday.", 'South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha told the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva “human rights cannot thrive in the absence of peace”.', 'She said progress towards a “nuclear-free Korean peninsula” that had started would have enormous rewards, including an improvement of the human rights situation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.']


One killed and 15 suffer injuries in Delhi bus accident
['A photo view of the bus accident.', 'A dumper driver was killed and 15 others suffered minor injuries when a low floor DTC bus and dumper collided at the ITO crossing in Central Delhi on Tuesday early morning.', 'Police said the injured dumper driver was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his serious injuries while 15 other passengers in the DTC bus suffered minor injuries.', 'A PCR call was received at around 4 am regarding an accident at ITO red light. A PCR rushed to the spot and found that a dumper coming from ring road and DTC bus of route no. 740 collided at ITO crossing when the traffic signal was on blinker mode. The dumper was coming from Ring Road and bus was going from Anand Vihar to Uttam Nagar when the accident happened.', 'An eyewitness said that due to impact of collision the bus veered off its track and rammed into the railings on median divider crashing into an electricity pole.', 'Police said they are trying locating the owner of dumper to identify the deceased driver. Efforts are being made to clear the crahed vehicles from the crossing to resume traffic.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Most senior Catholic charged with child sex abuse convicted
['Australian Cardinal George Pell leaves the Melbourne Magistrate Court in Melbourne on May 1, 2018.', 'Richter, Cardinal Pell’s lawyer, had told the jury that the media had portrayed Pell as the “Darth Vader” of the church, referring to the “Star Wars” character.', 'The most senior Catholic cleric ever charged with child sex abuse has been convicted of molesting two choirboys moments after celebrating Mass, dealing a new blow to the Catholic hierarchy’s credibility after a year of global revelations of abuse and cover-up.', 'Cardinal George Pell, Pope Francis’ top financial adviser and the Vatican’s economy minister, bowed his head but then regained his composure as the 12-member jury delivered unanimous verdicts in the Victoria state County Court on Dec. 11 after more than two days of deliberation.', 'The court had until Tuesday forbidden publication of any details about the trial.', 'The convictions were confirmed the same week that Pope Francis concluded his extraordinary summit of Catholic leaders summoned to Rome for a tutorial on preventing clergy sexual abuse and protecting children from predator priests.', 'The jury convicted Pell of abusing two 13-year-old boys whom he had caught swigging sacramental wine in a rear room of Melbourne’s St. Patrick’s Cathedral in late 1996, as hundreds of worshippers were streaming out of Sunday services.', 'Pell, now 77 but 55 at the time, had just been named the most senior Catholic in Australia’s second-largest city, Melbourne.', 'The jury also found Pell guilty of indecently assaulting one of the boys in a corridor more than a month later.', 'Pell had maintained his innocence throughout, describing the accusations as “vile and disgusting conduct” that went against everything he believed in.', 'Both he and Chief Judge Peter Kidd urged the jury of eight men and four women not to punish Pell for all the failings of the Catholic Church.', 'Pell, who walked to and from court throughout his monthlong trial with a crutch under his right arm, was released on bail to undergo surgical knee replacements in Sydney on Dec. 14. Prosecutor Mark Gibson did not oppose bail, saying the surgery would be more easily managed outside the prison system.', 'Judge Kidd warned that the continuing bail was not a sign that the 77-year-old would avoid a prison sentence.', 'The first four offenses occurred at the first or second Solemn Mass that Archbishop Pell celebrated as leader of the magnificent blue-stone century-old cathedral in the center of Melbourne. Pell was wearing his full robes though not his staff or pointed bishops’ hat at the time.', 'The now 34-year-old survivor told the court that Pell orally raped him, then crouched and fondled the complainant’s genitals while masturbating.', 'The other victim died of a heroin overdose in 2014 without ever complaining of the abuse, and even denying to his suspicious mother that he had been molested while he was part of the choir.', 'Neither boy can be identified.', 'More than a month later, the complainant testified that Pell pushed him against a cathedral corridor wall after a mass and squeezed the boy’s genitals painfully before walking away in silence.', 'The complainant testified that he feared that making such accusations against a powerful church man would cost him his place in the choir and with it his scholarship to prestigious St. Kevin’s College.', 'Pell pleaded not guilty to one count of sexual penetration of a child under 16 and four counts of willfully committing an indecent act with or in the presence of a child under 16 in late 1996 and early 1997.', 'Pell did not testify at his trial. But the jury saw a video recording of an interview he gave Australian detectives in Rome in 2016 in which he stridently denied the allegations.', 'Pell grimaced, appeared incredulous, distressed, waved his arms over his head and muttered to himself as the detectives detailed the accusations that his victim had leveled against him a year earlier.', 'Richter, Pell’s lawyer, had told the jury that the media had portrayed Pell as the “Darth Vader” of the church, referring to the “Star Wars” character.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Pilgrims walk and walk in this ancient Ethiopian town ahead of Christmas.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Fact-checking of infoon Internet crucial’
['AU College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Ramamohana Rao felicitating Google Trainer Ravisankar Mudigonda at a workshop in Visakhapatnam on Monday.', 'Concerns over the authentication of the information available on the Internet are growing of late, Andhra University College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Rammohana Rao said.', 'Addressing a workshop on ‘Identifying Fake Content on the Internet and Fact-Checking,’ organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of AU, on Monday, he underlined the need for a mechanism to filter information flow and verify the facts.', 'Journalism and Mass Communication HoD P. Bobby Vardhan said technology had changed the face of information dissemination and checking the credibility was very crucial. Chairman of the Board of Studies D.V.R. Murthy said the Google had revolutionised information flow and it was high time it was regulated. Google Trainer-Fact Check Ravisankar Mudigonda explained how fake content could be identified.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Early onset of heatwave mayresult in erratic monsoon this year’
['Intense cyclonic storms are on the cards, says JAMSTEC scientist Swadhin Behara.', 'The early onset of heatwave conditions this year may result in a delayed and erratic monsoon in India, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) scientist Swadhin Behara has said.', 'Referring to climate change, Mr. Behara attributed it to the rise in the ocean temperature.', 'Explaining about the connection between the ocean temperature and climate, Mr. Behara said warming of oceans would lead to more intense cyclonic storms of category 4 and 5, rather than a prolonged monsoon season.', 'Over the last five decades, he said, the oceans have absorbed more then 80% of the global heat, impacting the ice in the poles. “The Arctic region is already bearing the brunt. We must cut the emission of green house gases before the Antarctic comes under its impact,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elaborate arrangements made for Intermediate exams tomorrow
['Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned private junior colleges in the state against withholding hall tickets of students with regard to the Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled for February 27, on the pretext of unpaid fees.', 'Secretary of the Board A. Ashok has threatened the managements with serious action if they were found resorting to such tactics.', 'Students who have not got their hall tickets as yet may download the same from the Board’s website starting from 4 p.m. on Monday. An exam centre locator App was launched at the same time.', 'A total of 9,42,719 students are set to appear for the exams this year; 4,52,550 for first year and 4,90,169 for second year.', 'In the General category, 4,09,090 are from the first year, and 3,82,996 from second year. A total of 43,460 are attending the first year Vocational, and 35,780 the second year Vocational, in the regular category, while 68,375 are appearing privately for second year General, and 3,018 for Vocational.', 'Of the 1,277 examination centres, 40 are self centres, where students will be allowed to write the exam in their own college for want of logistical convenience, Mr. Ashok said at a press conference on Monday.', 'A total of 24,508 invigilators will be deployed for the exams. Two hundred sitting squads have been deployed at the problematic centres, while 50 flying squads comprising members from Education, Police and Revenue departments, will conduct surprise checks to prevent malpractice. Exam observers too will visit the centres for surprise checks.', 'Photocopy shops near the exam centres will be closed during exam hours, 9 a.m. to 12 noon. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the centres, and question papers should be opened only in the visibility range of the cameras. A district-level high power committee with district collector as chairman and Superintendent of Police and others as members have been constituted, apart from District Examination Committees, for smooth conduct of exams.', 'The centres will be guarded by the police, and Section 144 CrPC will be imposed around the location.', 'RTC authorities have been requested to reschedule their services to suit the exam hours, and Electricity department, for uninterrupted power supply. Drinking water and medical facilities have been provided at the centres.', 'Candidates have been instructed to enter the examination hall by 8.45 a.m., and fill in the OMR details by 9 a.m. Fifteen minutes grace time will be permitted, and no candidate will be allowed inside after 9 a.m., nor will be allowed to go out before 12 noon, Mr. Ashok cautioned.', 'Cell phones, electronic gadgets, pagers, calculators, or any kind of printed/written material will not be allowed inside the hall.', 'Criminal cases will be booked against candidates resorting to copying, malpractice, or impersonation, and will be debarred, Mr. Ashok warned. A control room will function with the numbers 040-24601010 and 24732369 where complaints can be made if any.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ABC Centre to be opened on March 1
['Shelters for dogs getting ready at the ABC Centre at Poolakkadavu.', 'Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan will open the Animal Birth Control Centre of the Kozhikode Corporation on March 1. The centre, located at Poolakkadavu, has been in the making for over four years.', 'Corporation veterinary officer V.S. Sreeshma said that there were around 14,000 stray dogs within the city limits according to the corporation’s stray dog census in 2017, and that it might have doubled by now. “We target 500 sterilisations per month. Yet, we will be fully engaged for a few years to eliminate the possibility of stray dog multiplication in the city,” she added.', 'The centre has facilities to conduct surgeries for five dogs at a time, including pre-operative and post-operative wards with 19 kennels, a preparation room, doctors’ room, sterilisation room, pharmacy, lecture hall, incinerator, waste treatment plant, and a dog van. Four surgeons and an anaesthetist, besides dog catchers, were appointed at the hospital recently.', 'For now, the centre will conduct sterilisation of stray dogs. At the same time, pet dogs can avail medical care at the centre. The facility will cater for Kozhikode city alone for a few years, and the services will be extended to other local bodies later.', 'Dr. Sreeshma said a multispeciality veterinary hospital had also been proposed along with the ABC Centre. However, work on the ABC centre was expedited as it was an emergency situation. The hospital will take some more time to be completed, she added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Early intervention sought for congenital heart diseases
['Around 5,000 children are born in Kerala with congenital heart diseases in a year, and early diagnosis and surgery can prevent their condition from turning worse, a Kozhikode-based civil surgeon said here on Monday.', 'U.N. Ramesh, who is part of the organising team behind a health camp to detect congenital heart diseases among children to be held on March 3 here, pointed out that some of them were in a critical condition that required immediate surgery.', 'Atrial Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the two upper chambers of the heart, and Ventricular Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the lower chambers of the heart, were the most common problems found among children, he claimed.', 'Dr. Ramesh said genetic problems or lifestyle issues, such as diabetes, of parents could lead to such conditions among children.', 'Organisers of the camp claimed that around 2,50,000 children across the country were found to have heart-related problems a year, and that 95% of them were not getting proper treatment.', 'The Indian Academy of Paediatrics too has cited heart disease as a major cause for the death of children in Kerala. Though timely diagnosis and surgeries could improve their condition, most parents are not able to shore up money for the purpose. Several families are forced into debt trap because of the high cost of treatment, they added.', 'V. Damodaran, representative of Rotary International, one of the organisers, said that Gift of Life, their free heart surgery project, was launched in association with Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi, to help such children.', 'The diagnosis camp to be held at Government Model Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode, will cover children aged below 18 from Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Malappuram districts. When similar camps were held in Kochi in previous years, a majority of participants were found to be from Malabar, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Chaos in corporation council meeting
['The meeting of the Kozhikode Corporation council on Monday, the last before the Budget session, ended up in chaos with councillors of Opposition parties shouting at one another over two issues that had practically nothing to do with development.', 'The mayhem began after councillor K. Nirmala drew the council’s attention to the alleged lapse in the distribution of welfare pension in Panniyankara, her ward.', 'Leader of the Opposition P.M. Suresh Babu of the Congress conveyed his party’s objection to the council session on February 18 despite party leaders demanding its postponement.', 'The Youth Congress had called for a lighting hartal on that day following the murder of two of its workers in Kasaragod, allegedly by CPI(M) activists.', 'Though the council leaders of the Congress and the BJP had sought postponement of the session, it was held in accordance with the rule that one-third attendance was enough to conduct meetings in such situations.', 'On Monday, Mr. Suresh Babu pointed out that he had requested that the session be postponed on humanitarian grounds and the decisions of the session be cancelled. His statement that the Mayor may be considered as being supportive of the accused if he did not cancel the decisions irked the ruling front councillors who began an argument with the Opposition councillors which ended up in a UDF walkout.', 'Health officer R.S. Gopakumar said the issue was due to a corrupted server, and that tender proceedings for a back-up battery were on. He also pointed out practical problems in the system and disparity in fee levied at different offices. Mr. Gopakumar suggested that the system be unified with the main counter at the corporation head office and kiosks at the zonal offices. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran directed the Corporation Secretary to take the required steps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Deploying unskilled volunteers risky’
['Taking no chances: According to TRACK, an NGO, local volunteers who jump into action when disasters strike lack experience in dealing with real-life situations.', 'Most local volunteers who jump into action during disaster outbreaks in the State lack proper exposure and training to deal with real-life situations, functionaries of a Kozhikode-based non-governmental organisation have claimed.', 'He pointed out that such volunteers should be trained properly before being deputed to disaster-hit areas.', 'Mr. Kumar said TRACK was planning to train 250 volunteers to be deployed during natural disasters in the district.', 'As many as five camps will be held to train volunteers by May. The first camp was held at Poonoor. Others will be held at Vadakara, Vazhakkad, Thottilpalam, and on the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society campus.', 'Details of volunteers will be handed over to the district administration so that it can be part of relief work along with personnel of the District Disaster Management Authority. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao will hand over certificates to 83 volunteers trained by TRACK at an event to be held in Kozhikode on February 26, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Two men held in Noida for raping woman
['Two men were arrested on Monday morning for allegedly raping a 35-year-old Agra-based woman in a flat inside a gated society in Greater Noida’s Kasna on February 23 night, the police said.', 'The woman was brought to Greater Noida by one of the accused who was her acquiantance.', 'The accused allegedly took the victim to a society in Kasna where they were joined by another man. Both the men then raped the woman.', 'The police said that the woman filed a complaint on Sunday in which she said she knew the accused who had lured her into sightseeing in Agra, but took her to Greater Noida instead.', 'Mr. Kumar also said that a case was registered under IPC Sections 376 D (punishment for gang rape) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) based on the victim’s complaint.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Women’s panel issues notice to Delhi police over safety in east Delhi park
['The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued notice to the Delhi Police after it found anti-social activities taking place in a park in East Delhi, on the second day of the 13-day padyatra launched on Sunday.', 'The women’s commission, in the notice issued, sought information from the police pertaining to the steps taken by the force to ensure proper law and order within and outside the park.', 'Further, the police have been directed to inform the commission about the steps undertaken by the force to ensure that anti-social activities are prevented in the park.', 'Additionally, a separate notice was issued to the Delhi Police over “large scale sale of alcohol and drugs openly” in East Azad Nagar.', 'The “Mahila Suraksha Padyatra” launched by the DCW aims to create awareness on security and safety of women in the Capital. Over the next two days, the march will move towards north east Delhi and Delhi University.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Police zero in on suspects in attack on Congress office
['Four persons suspected of involvement in the attack on the office of the Indian National Congress at Ayanchery near Vadakara in the district on Sunday have been caught on surveillance cameras.', 'An investigation team from the Vadakara police station said the visuals would be examined soon to identify the four.', 'Police sources said two of the four-member gang, who allegedly set the building afire, had their faces covered. The other two will be identified soon, they added.', 'Meanwhile, Congress leaders in the area alleged that the attack was carried out by CPI(M) activists. They also claimed that protests by Congress workers subsequent to the Periya twin murder case had provoked a section of CPI (M) workers in the area.', 'On Sunday, a hartal was observed at Ayanchery protesting against the incident. Senior Congress leaders, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, had flayed the incident and demanded an investigation. They also accused CPI(M) workers of triggering political unrest in the area for unknown reasons.', 'The police said the attack on the office was the continuation of a clash between Congress and CPI(M)workers in the area. The building was allegedly set afire around 3 a.m. on Sunday.', 'Recently, Congress and CPI(M) workers had locked horns over the removal of campaign boards in Vadakara, they added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


MVD control room for radar cameras all set for opening
['The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will commission its second State-level control room for monitoring and initiating action on the basis of live feeds from radar surveillance cameras in the city on March 5.', 'Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will open the facility, which will be initially monitoring feeds from various speed detection and red light violation cameras installed by the MVD on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch.', 'On completion of the pending repair and installation of additional surveillance cameras, the control room will also be able to handle live feeds from north Kerala districts. The new control room at Chevayur will be converted into a district-level unit.', 'Deputy Transport Commissioner K.M. Shaji said the control room would have facilities to constantly monitor as many as 37 cameras on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch. Technicians from Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (KELTRON) will be in charge of monitoring camera feeds and issuing notices on behalf of the MVD, he added.', 'An automated heavy vehicle fitness testing centre is ready for opening at Chevayur, which will help the department speed up testing procedures. The unit is equipped with facilities to conduct up to seven tests in various phases on a vehicle. The highlight is that fitness certificates can be issued on the spot. The new mechanism will also put an end to the conventional practice of test-driving vehicles and manually inspecting engine parts.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


95-year-old dies day after getting FIR registered
['A 95-year-old man died on Sunday night, a day after he finally got his FIR registered against a BJP leader and four others from Tugalpur village of Knowledge park in Greater Noida for assaulting and conspiring against him in order to illegally obtain his property on January 14.', 'According to the police, Atar Singh died on Sunday night due to prolonged illness. He was cremated on Monday morning .', 'Atar, a resident of Tugalpur village in Greater Noida lived with his brother’s family. His wife died a few years after marriage. He had alleged in his FIR that he was cheated by a BJP leader Teja Gurjar, his younger brother Jay Singh and three others named Parvinder Nagar, Subodh Kumar and Shahabuddin from his village, who all misled him into giving his thumbprint on some papers to transfer his property to Parvinder Nagar.', 'His relatives had informed that he was operated on January 31 for a fracture of hip bone which he had received after being assaulted by the accused on January 14. Since then he had been bedridden. He took his last breath on Sunday night only after getting the FIR registered for which he had been waiting since last one month.', 'Ajay Singh, nephew of the victim said that his uncle died after fighting a battle during his last days. After his death, his family will continue to fight for the justice which he had sought, said Ajay.', 'The allegations were however denied by Mr. Gurjar, who has been a member of BJP since 1991. He said that the victim is known to him, but he didn’t cheat him. It was Atar and his family who cheated him and his brother by selling an already acquired land.', 'Meanwhile, police said that they had recorded the statement of Atar before his death.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Drunk man detained over hoax call
['A drunk man, who had made a call to the control room threatening to blow up the Prime Minister after getting into a fight with his landlord, was detained by the police, officers said on Monday. The call was received at 10.30 p.m. on Sunday from the man, who was a labourer.', 'The caller was detained and jointly interrogated by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell, the Intelligence Bureau and the local police, police said. He was let off after questioning as it was found to be a hoax call. He had liquor following a fight with his landlord and made the call as he was angry, police added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Four injured as bag with firecrackers explodes
['Four persons, including a senior citizen, sustained injuries after a bag full of firecrackers burst during a wedding celebration in Kanjhawala on Sunday night.', 'A senior police officer said that the injured have been identified as Dalbir (39), Kirpal (24), Ramesh (75) and Dhanu (55). While three of them have been discharged after treatment, Dhanu is undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital.', 'The officer said that the incident happened at Assistant Sub Inspector Rajendra’s sons’ wedding. “Both his sons got married on Sunday and during the procession, a few people were bursting firecrackers. One of the crackers dropped inside the bag filled with firecrackers and it burst,” he said.', 'The impact was such that a few windows of the house broke and four persons got injured. The injured were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, but are yet to make any arrests in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


State purpose of issuing LOC against Satish Sana: HC to CBI
['The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the CBI’s stand on whether a businessman against whom a look out circular (LOC) was issued in connection with a corruption case, involving meat exporter Moin Qureshi and the agency’s ex-director A.P. Singh, was required for further investigation.', 'Justice Najmi Waziri also asked the CBI to state the purpose of issuing an LOC against Satish Babu Sana, saying that there cannot be an open LOC like this and the agency has to disclose what it wants to do.', 'The High Court’s order came on a plea by Mr. Sana, seeking the quashing of an LOC issued against him despite the fact that he was appearing before the CBI every time he was summoned for questioning in the case.', 'The court directed Mr. Sana to place on record the details of his unencumbered assets and listed the case for hearing on February 28.', 'Mr. Sana, in his petition, has said that the FIR was lodged on February 17, 2017 and since then he has travelled abroad 15-16 times and returned to India each time.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


2 members of Guddu gang arrested
['The Delhi police arrested two robbers who were involved in 17 cases of robbery and snatching in Dwarka, the police said on Monday.', 'Police said they have arrested two active members of Guddu Gang namely Umesh and Vikky and recovered two country made pistols and four live cartridges from their possession.', 'DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said a police team was formed to prevent armed robberies in the area. . When the team was patrolling on Pankha Road in Bindapur, they noticed a sports bike with two riders without helmet. As they were rash driving, the patrolling team grew suspicious. The officers tried to stop the vehicle, but they attempted to escape. The team immediately overpowered them and one country made pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from their possession. During interrogation, they disclosed that they are members of Guddu Gang.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Transport, infrastructure sectors lagging behind
['The Delhi government’s transport and road infrastructure projects were lagging behind other departments like education and social welfare when it came to meeting targets set by the Outcome Budget 2018-2019, shows the status report presented in the Delhi Assembly on Monday.', 'While presenting the status report of the Outcome Budget 2018-2019 till December 31, 2018, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said most projects were on track but those that were off-track were “largely due to the fact that services are not under the elected government’s control”.', 'In the education sector, the government’s directorates of education, higher education and technical education managed to be on track on 74%, 86% and 79% respectively of their critical indicators.', 'The Directorate of Education (DoE) managed to fill 95% of total nursery seats and has added 301 schools that offer nursery classes in 2018-2019.', 'The report also showed that the target of having an average of 20 functional computers per school was not met.', 'The DoE surpassed its own targets when it came to Class X and Class XII results, with 69% and 90.64% students passing respectively as against targets of 60% and 89%.', 'However, the percentage of students scoring above 33% marks shows that in Class VI, VII and VIII only 46.6%, 53.58% and 57.19% got above 33% as against a target of 70%.', 'The Health Department was on track on 83% of its critical indicators at the end of December.', 'However, one of the government’s flagship projects, the Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics, was far from meeting its target of 530 clinics with only 189 functional.', 'The average number of patients per day per AAMC was 94 as opposed to the target of 130.', 'In terms of infrastructure, the report showed that the strengthening of the Public Works Department’s (PWD) roads that have a right of way less than 30 metres, for which an amount of ₹10,000 lakh had been allocated, could only be furthered by 10%.', 'The percentage of road stretches where construction was completed as per the deadline went from their status of 40% in 2017-2018 to 50% as opposed to the target of 100%.', 'There was zero progress in terms of street-scaping and beautification intended on 22 PWD roads.', 'Not even a single one of 150 LED screens that were to be installed has been materialised.', 'The repair and rehabilitation of bridges and flyovers, for which ₹2,500 lakh had been allocated was not taken up.', 'Meanwhile, the performance of Delhi government’s Transport Department was the lowest with 57% of the indicators being on track. Buses plied by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) saw the average daily ridership go down to 29.91 lakh from 31.03 lakh in 2017-2018.', 'The target was increasing it to 32.93 lakh. The per day earnings of DTC buses went down from ₹5,931 lakh to ₹5,846 lakh.', 'The Transport Department issued 35.38 lakh pollution under control (PUC) certificates up to December 31, 2018, against the target of 51 lakh during the financial year.', 'The number of challans issued by the department for not having valid PUCs during the period was 24,171 as compared to the target of 29,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Only 4 lakh names deleted while updating electoral list, says CEO
['Refuting the allegations of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that over 30 lakh names were deleted from Delhi’s electoral rolls, the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) filed a reply in a court on Monday stating that only 4 lakh voters’ names were deleted while updating the list.', 'Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Samar Vishal took cognisance of the defamation complaint filed against Mr. Kejriwal and others by BJP leader Rajeev Babbar at North Avenue police station.', 'Electoral officer Manoj Kumar, who was representing the CEO of Delhi, submitted his reply in the Patiala House Courts against the claims made by Mr. Kejriwal.', 'The CEO said he has brought the summoned record relating to the procedure of addition and deletion of electors in the electoral rolls pertaining to Assembly constituencies of Delhi.', 'Between January 10, 2018, and January 18, 2019, a total of 2,88,140 names were added, and during the same period 4,07,715 names were deleted.', 'The total numbers of voters in the NCT of Delhi, as per the final roll published on January 18, 2019, is 1,36,95,291 and at the time of final publication on January 10, 2018, the number was 1,38,14,866.', 'The ACMM added that further examination of complainant witness has been deferred.', 'On December 6 last year, Mr. Kejriwal had tweeted: “Not 40k. Total 30 lakh votes deleted. 4 lakh baniyas, 8 lakh muslims, 15 lakh poorvanchalis and 3 lakh rest [sic].” During his campaign, the Chief Minister had accused the BJP of getting the names deleted.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Three of gang involved in phone theft cases arrested
['The Delhi police have busted a gang who used to steal mobile phones from bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village in South Delhi , said the police on Monday.', 'DCP (South West) Devender Arya said three criminals of Sahid Gang identified as Wakas Shahid, Wasim and Naim were arrested by the Safdarjung Enclave Police.', 'Mr. Arya said they were getting numerous complaints of mobile thefts from various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village. A police team was formed to solve the cases. The team got a specific input that the suspects will come to Hauz Khas Village to target people. A vehicle checking was ordered and a car was intercepted in which four persons were sitting.', 'During interrogation, they disclosed that they used to visit various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village on Saturday and Sunday as the frequency of visitors on these days are higher than other days.', 'They target those who are heavily drunk. The accused used to carry a pin in their key rings for opening the SIM and after removal of SIM, they used to destroy it so that no one track them.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Flights diverted as rain lashes Capital
['Rain accompanied by strong winds lashed the city on Monday with some parts of the city experiencing hailstorm as well.', "The maximum temperature was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature settled at 9.2 degrees Celsius which was three degrees below the season's average. The rainfall however, likely to bring the minimum temperature up to 13 degrees Celsius and the maximum is likely to fall to 22.", 'As many as 11 Delhi-bound flights were diverted to Jaipur and Lucknow airports as a result, airport officials said here. “A total of 11 flights have been diverted due to bad weather that has created an air traffic congestion over Delhi airport this evening,” an airport official said.', 'The Met Department said interpretation of numerical model products, satellite information, radar information and analysis of current weather observations are indicating that adverse weather conditions would prevail over north-west India including Delhi-NCR till March 5.', 'The peak activity, the Met department, said will be on February 26 and February 27 and again on March 2 and March 3.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Priya Ramani gets bail in defamation case
['A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to journalist Priya Ramani in the defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar.', 'Since the offence is bailable in nature, Ms. Priya Ramani is admitted to bail subject to furnishing personal bond and surety bond in the sum of ₹10,000 each. Bail bonds furnished, considered and accepted,” the court said in its order.', 'Ms. Ramani moved an application for exemption from personal appearance, which was opposed by the counsel for Mr. Akbar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BJP to begin beneficiary outreach campaign today
['BJP leaders, including Union Ministers, will visit homes of beneficiaries of Modi government’s welfare schemes beginning on Tuesday.', 'They will light lamps at the homes and localitiesof the beneficiaries. BJP national president Amit Shah is slated reach a village in Uttar Pradesh that got electricity connection for the first time, by boat.', 'Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said the drive would be conducted from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 83 location across the Capital.', 'Union Minister Harsh Vardhan will participate at the Keshavpuram district, Vijay Goel at Chandni Chowk and Sadar Bazar, Mr. Tiwari will participate in the programme at Khajuri Chowk.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DoT writes to police over ‘incendiary’ video by Mishra
['The Department of Telecommunications under Ministry of Communications has written a letter to the Delhi police on Monday over the circulation of an “incendiary” video by suspended AAP MLA Kapil Mishra on social media.', 'The letter written to Commissioner of Delhi Police by Ashish Joshi, controller communication, reads that one Kapil Mishra has circulated a “highly incendiary” video provoking people to attack some citizens.', 'Mr. Joshi said he had seen the video on Twitter, which was also uploaded on YouTube.', 'The link of video shared on social media by Mr. Mishra was also mentioned in the complaint.', 'The content of the video is self-explanatory and violates the Indian Penal Code and IT Act. The letter has been issued in public interest.', 'The letter has also been marked to Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Vigilance).', 'Delhi police spokesperson Madhur Verma said they have not received any complaint letter in this regard. The necessary action will be taken after receiving a copy of the complaint, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DUTA protests ‘crisis’ in university
['Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) organised a human chain on Monday at the Arts Faculty to highlight the “crisis” in the university. The participants blamed the DU Vice-Chancellor and the MHRD for creating such a situation. The protest was organised ahead of the call for a total strike to be observed between February 27 and March 1.', 'Teachers who participated said that they felt that there was a nexus between the university administration and the MHRD to ensure that the issues remain unresolved as part of the government’s agenda to withdraw funding from higher education.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Sanath Jayasuriya banned for two years for breaching ICC Anti-Corruption Code
['Former Sri Lanka batsman Sanath Jayasuriya was on Tuesday banned for two years after admitting to obstruct an anti-corruption probe by tampering with evidence sought by the International Cricket Council (ICC).', 'Jayasuriya admitted breaching the anti-corruption unit (ACU) code of the global body on two separate counts.', 'Jayasuriya is a former Sri Lankan captain who was also a key member of the 1996 World Cup winning team. He later served two terms as the chairman of selectors.', 'Jayasuriya was questioned as part of the ICC’s investigation of wide-scale corruption in Sri Lankan cricket.', 'The ACU recently gave an amnesty in relation to Sri Lanka Cricket resulting in 11 players and other participants coming forward with new information.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Cummins praises ‘fast and accurate’ Bumrah
["Jasprit Bumrah celebrates the wicket of Australia's Nathan Coulter-Nile during the first Twenty20 cricket match between India and Australia at ACA-VDCA Stadium in Visakhapatnam, on February 24, 2019.", 'In-form Australian pacer Pat Cummins on Tuesday could not help but praise another fast bowler on the top of his game - Jasprit Bumrah, saying the Indian’s pace and accuracy has made him a serious threat in all three formats.', 'Cummins has been Australia’s standout fast bowler over the last 12 months and has even made some useful contributions with the bat, including in the first T20 against India in Vizag on Sunday, when he got a crucial four and a double on the final two balls to pull off a three wicket win for his team.', 'Bumrah, on the other hand, brought back India into the game by taking two wickets in the 19th over in which he conceded just two runs. In his comeback game, he showed how invaluable he has become for India in all three formats.', 'The 25-year-old from Sydney himself has become invaluable for his team after maintaining his fitness over the past two seasons. He did well in the home Test series against India though the hosts lost before blowing away Sri Lanka.', 'He has also been involved with some tense finishes including the one in the last game. Though he doesn’t consider himself as a proper batsman yet, Cummins relishes the challenge of closing out games.', 'Talking about thriving in tense moments, Cummins said: “You play international sport because you want to be in moments where you can win a game. T20 is a great format, almost feels like every second or third, you are either in a position to win a game or the game is on the line.', 'Australia are a game away from a series win in India and if that happens, “it will be a huge result”, feels Cummins.', 'Cummins loved the bowler-friendly conditions in Vizag but is expecting more runs from the surface at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


India eye series-saving win over Australia in second T20I
['The focus remains firmly on the 50-over World Cup but India would also be desperate to ensure that a home series does not slip out of their grip when they take on Australia in the second and final T20 International here on Wednesday.', 'India are 0-1 down after an inexplicably poor batting performance led to a three-wicket loss in the opener in Visakhapatnam.', 'The below-par 126 with the bat on Sunday denied bowlers a decent shot at securing a win even though the Jasprit Bumrah-led attack did all it could to keep the home team in the game till the final over of the match.', 'India skipper Virat Kohli has already said that his squad composition for the World Cup in May-July is “more or less sorted” but has not ruled out rewarding standout performances over the course of two T20s and five ODIs.', 'Considering the captain’s current frame of mind, both KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant are likely to feature in most of the games against Australia.', 'India rested opener Shikhar Dhawan to give game time to Rahul, who grabbed the opportunity with both hands by smashing 50 off 36 balls in his comeback game.', 'He had a disastrous Test tour of Australia before he and Hardik Pandya were provisionally suspended for their comments during a TV show.', 'The ban was later revoked though they still face an inquiry.', 'With the series on the line, it remains to be seen if Dhawan is brought back into the side to open alongside Rohit Sharma or the team retains the opening combination which featured in Vizag.', 'While Bumrah showed his class after coming back from a break, the other pacer in Umesh Yadav leaked runs and was not able to defend 14 in the final over.', 'India could replace Umesh with Siddarth Kaul or bring in all-rounder Vijay Shankar to beef-up the batting department.', 'The hosts played with a long tail in Vizag and that impacted their final total following an inexplicable batting collapse from 69 for one in the ninth over.', 'Pant, a strong contender for a World Cup berth, will be itching to perform after getting out cheaply on Sunday, and so will be Dinesh Karthik, who is left with just one game to make a compelling contribution before the World Cup.', 'All eyes will once again also be on Mahendra Singh Dhoni the batsman who struggled to an unbeaten 29 off 37 balls as India managed 126 for seven in Vizag.', 'He was able to silence his critics with a solid showing in Australia and New Zealand but his rather slow innings on Sunday has got the tongues wagging again over his waning finishing abilities.', 'Debutant leg-spinner Mayank Markande (0/31 in four overs) did not pick up a wicket but bowled well according to Kohli. The 21-year-old might get another game.', 'Australia, on the other hand, will be fancying a rare series win against India in recent times, especially after losing the Test and ODI series at home to Kohli’s team.', 'They would be happy with their bowling on a slow surface in the first game but made a mess of the 127-run target after cruising at one stage.', 'Australia somehow got over the line but they know that India won’t be serving the series win on a platter and will come hard at them at the Chinnaswamy Stadium.', 'Captain Aaron Finch would love to be back among the runs and the team will be expecting another blinder from Glenn Maxwell, who hit 56 off 43 deliveries in Vizag.', 'Match starts: 7pm IST.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Mumbai coasts to victory over Goa
['Marauder: Opener Prithvi Shaw’s five boundaries and seven sixes set Mumbai on course for victory.', 'Openers Prithvi Shaw (71, 47b, 5x5, 7x6) and Ajinkya Rahane (31, 25b, 5x4) clicked for the first time in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy to set up Mumbai’s convincing six-wicket win over Goa and help the side maintain a clean slate in Group C.', 'Shaw’s 95-run association with captain Rahane ensured Mumbai overhauled a moderate target without any fuss after an all-round bowling effort had restricted Goa to 140 for four.', 'In the first half of the league stage, neither Shaw — returning after recovering from the ankle injury he suffered in Australia — nor Rahane — in a desperate bid to revive his white-ball career for India — had been able to make meaningful contributions.', 'In fact, both had not even survived the first three overs in Mumbai’s three matches coming into Monday’s game.', 'They turned the tide in style against an attack that lacked penetration. The moment the diminutive Shaw pulverised swinger Krishna Das over cover and extra cover for sixes off consecutive balls in the fourth over, the signs were ominous.', 'He took on part-time leg-spinner Amit Verma, despatching him over the fence against the turn thrice in an over besides cutting him for a four through backward point.', 'Rahane found the gaps and swept left-arm spinner Darshan Misal at will.', 'Just when they were running away with the game, Rahane top-edged a flick off medium-pacer Vijesh Prabhudesai for Suyash Prabhudesai to complete a running catch at mid-wicket.', 'Shaw then swept Misal for a six over mid-wicket before mistiming another attempt to deep square-leg. In-form Shreyas Iyer and Siddhesh Lad then fell cheaply to prolong Goa’s defeat before Suryakumar Yadav and Aditya Tare completed the formalities in the penultimate over.', 'Earlier, after being put in to field, Mumbai’s bowlers put in yet another disciplined effort to not let Goa’s batsmen thrive.', 'Pacer Shardul Thakur was unlucky, with Shreyas and Rahane failing to latch on to difficult chances in the field.', 'Goa captain Amogh Desai started upping the ante, before Shreyas ran in from sweeper cover to end his innings off a mistimed drive off left-arm spinner Shams Mulani.', 'The other Goa batsmen failed to get on top of the Mumbai bowlers, with Suyash’s six and a four off the last two balls of the innings off Dhawal Kulkarni helping the team touch the 140-run mark.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: J & K has it easy against Andhra
['Consistent: Shubham Singh Pundir’s second consecutive half-century, which included six boundaries and a six, ensured J&K’s win over Andhra.', 'Jammu & Kashmir pulled off a five-wicket win over Andhra in a Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket league match at the Mulapadu Cricket Complex here on Monday.', 'Andhra, put into bat, scored 146 for seven in 20 overs with wicketkeeper-batsman K. Srikar Bharat (41, 38b, 3x4, 1x6) being the top-scorer. The others found the bowling tough to score with medium-pacer Ram Dayal (two for 23) being the main wicket-taker. Off-spinner Parvez Rasool bowled a tidy spell of one for 19 in his four overs.', 'In reply, J & K achieved the target thanks to a belligerent knock by Shubham Singh Pundir, who cracked his second consecutive half-century (51, 36b, 6x4, 1x6), and Parvez Rasool’s breezy 22-ball 31 (1x4, 2x6).', 'In another match, Delhi recorded a comfortable, seven-wicket win over Kerala thanks to a fine knock by Nitesh Rana (52 not out, 36b, 4x4, 2x6) after opener Unmkut Chand struck a 32-ball 33 (2x6).', 'Manipur notched up the most emphatic win of the day when it drubbed Nagaland by 10 wickets with openers Mayank Raghav (80 not out, 45b, 4x4, 6x6) and P. Prafullomani (51 not out, 54b, 4x4, 1x6) batting with lot of freedom to help team chase down 133 easily.', 'Andhra 146 for seven in 20 overs (K.S. Bharat 41) lost to J & K 148 for five in 20 overs (Abdul Samad 30, Shubham Singh Putir 51, Parvez Rasool 31).', 'Nagaland 132 for seven in 20 overs (Abrar Kavi 36, K. Priyojit three for 23) lost to Manipur 134 for no loss in 16.3 overs (Mayank Raghav 80 not out, P. Prafullomani 51 not out).', 'Kerala 139 for seven in 20 overs (Sachin Baby 37, Vinoop Sheela Manoharan 38) lost to Delhi 140 for three in 18.3 overs (Unmukt Chand 33, Nitesh Rana 52 not out).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Assam springs a surprise on Bengal
['Spinning a web: Shreyas Gopal picked up four wickets for just eight runs as the Mizoram batsmen were all at sea.', "Sibsankar Roy struck a brilliant 83 off just 53 balls as Bengal's batting failed once again to slip to a 26-run defeat against Assam in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 cricket tournament here on Monday. Assam’s third consecutive win propelled it to the No. 2 spot in Group D.", 'Set 163 to win, Bengal was dealt an early blow when opener Vivek Singh was caught behind off Mukhtar Hussain.', 'Kanishk Seth was promoted as a pinch hitter but the move backfired after the left-arm pacer was caught short of his crease by wicketkeeper Wasiqur Rahman.', 'And when Abhimanyu Easwaran’s top-edge was snaffled up at point three overs later, Bengal was left wobbling at 34 for three inside the first six overs.', 'Shreevats Goswami, the in-form batsman, struggled to time the ball on a two-paced pitch but hung on for a 34-run fifth-wicket stand with Wriddhman Saha.', 'However, Saha’s dismissal off Hussain compounded the problems. With the asking rate climbing, Goswami perished for 43 off Riyan Parag.', 'Earlier, Ashoke Dinda removed openers Sarupam Purkayastha and Pallav Das in quick succession after Bengal put Assam in.', 'Dinda bowled an incisive first spell conceding only five in two overs.', 'Ishan Porel further limited the scoring opportunities, bowling three overs on the trot giving away just 14.', 'Sibsankar tried to inject life into Assam’s otherwise sedate scoring up front, collecting four boundaries off Seth, two of those glorious cover-drives.', 'He brought up his fifty off 36 balls and added 137 for the third wicket with Parag.', 'Sibsankar was eventually run out for a 53-ball 83, but Parag’s quickfire half-century ensured Assam reached an eventually winning total. Dinda finished with four for 17.', 'In another match, Karnataka rolled over minnow Mizoram by 137 runs to consolidate its position at the top of Group D.', 'Rohan Kadam and Karun Nair toyed with the opposition attack, plundering 11 boundaries and eight sixes between them as the first-timer from North East wilted.', 'The duo added an enterprising 128 for the second wicket, with Karnataka breaching the 100-run mark in just 10.3 overs.', 'Rohan and Karun brought up their half-centuries off 39 and 26 balls respectively.', 'Twenty fours and 11 sixes in total were hit by the Karnataka batsmen as leg-spinner Sinan Khadir ended up leaking 54 in four overs — the most expensive of the seven bowlers used.', 'Mizoram openers Taruwar Kohli and Akhil Rajput put on an opening stand of 63 but their dismissals sealed the team’s fate.', 'For Karnataka, Shreyas Gopal picked up four wickets giving away eight runs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


‘CoA trying to be more pious than the Pope’: R.M. Lodha
['Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha.', 'Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha has taken strong exception to the members of the Committee of Administrators (CoA) venturing into areas beyond their brief.', 'The former Justice warned the game could head for trouble. “It is fortunate that the game has not been impacted by whatever is happening in the cricket administration. But the day is not far when lack of good governance may have a harmful impact on the game,” he noted.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


K.L. Rahul makes a statement on return
['Turnaround: K.L. Rahul batted with fluency on a sluggish Visakhapatnam pitch on Sunday.', 'It was not quite a match-winning effort, but K.L. Rahul should be more than a little relieved with his half-century in the first T20 International.', 'Comebacks are not always easy: the weight of expectations is often great. And when, like in this case, a player is returning from a suspension imposed for off-field acts, there is perhaps a need to feel confident on the field again. In these circumstances, his 36-ball 50 should count as a success.', 'Rahul was quickly into the groove on Sunday. He was the best of the Indian batsmen on show, and on a sluggish pitch batted with a fluency that eluded most of his colleagues.', 'He made room on the off-side, and cleared the infield, even if some of those shots did not come off the middle of the bat. And as long as he and Kohli were at the crease, India looked set for a good score.', "Over the last few weeks, Rahul may have feared that the chance to be part of India's World Cup squad had gone. After having been in and out of the one-day side over the previous years, he found a place in the ODI set-up on the Australia and New Zealand tours as India looked for a reserve opener.", 'And then came the suspension. So Rahul entered this home limited-overs series having played only three ODIs in 18 months. This fifty perhaps does not change much, but it leaves him in a good frame of mind ahead of the five one-dayers.', 'In the months after Rahul made his Test debut, having built a reputation as a composed, technically-sound opener in First Class cricket, he was at pains to point out that he was not a one-dimensional batsman.', 'Ahead of the 2016 IPL final in Bengaluru — a season in which he averaged 44 at a strike rate of 146 — he was asked if the perception that he could succeed only in the longest format had changed.', 'Three months later, he was hammering a spectacular 51-ball 110 in a T20 against West Indies at Lauderhill, becoming only the third Indian to score hundreds in all three formats of the game.', 'It was puzzling then that he slipped out of the reckoning in ODI cricket while remaining something of a regular in the Test and T20I teams. He has played only 13 ODIs, in some of which he has batted at three, four and five. His first one-day hundred, scored on ODI debut, remains his only ton in the format; he has two in T20 Internationals.', "In last year's IPL, Rahul batted like he was thoroughly enjoying himself, as he averaged nearly 55 from 14 games, going at a strike rate of 158. There is perhaps something liberating about batting in T20s.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Jhulan and Shikha fashion India’s series win
['Smiling assassin: Shikha Pandey struck in the second over to send back Amy Jones, a blow from which England never really recovered.', 'The pace duo of Jhulan Goswami and Shikha Pandey skittled out England for a paltry 161.', 'Then the stylish Smriti Mandhana, Punam Raut and Mithali Raj wielded their willows to help India score an emphatic seven-wicket win in the second ODI of the three-match ICC Women’s Championship series at the Wankhede Stadium here on Monday.', 'With Jhulan and Shikha sharing eight wickets, the home team clinched the series with the final match to be played on Thursday.', 'Jhulan has been India’s premier strike bowler for eighteen years and on Monday the world’s highest wicket-taker in ODIs, scalped four victims for the eighth time.', 'Jhulan was chosen as the Player-of-the-Match ahead of Shikha’s remarkable and career-best effort.', 'Reacting to the choice of the player of the match at the press conference, Shikha, said: “I am above all that now, I would say. It doesn’t really matter to me whether I am the Player-of-the- Match or not.', 'India took command of the proceedings after England opted to bat.', 'The 29-year-old Shikha dismissed Amy Jones in the second over and then evoked a false stroke from Tamsin Beaumont in the 14th over with Deepti Sharma converting a superb running catch at square-leg. In her second spell, she sent back Gerogia Elwiss and Katherine Brunt.', 'Jhulan removed Saray Taylor, who inside-edged the ball on to the stumps while attempting a drive, and the England skipper Heather Knight.', 'And when Natalie Sciver resorted to some bold hitting during England’s best-ever partnership for the 10th wicket, Jhulan trapped her in front to bring an end to the visitor’s innings with 39 balls remaining.', 'India lost Jemimah Rodrigues with just a run on the board, but Smriti took control of the chase with some lovely front-foot shots between cover and mid-off and added 73 with Punam Raut.', 'Smriti’s another valuable stand with Mithali Raj — 66 for the third wicket — clinched the match in under 42 overs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Tamil Nadu prevails in a dramatic finish
['Agony and ecstasy: A Tamil Nadu player consoles a crest-fallen Chirag Gandhi even as the others converge to celebrate.', 'Cricket showcases emotions of various hues. In this theatre of many protagonists, agony and ecstasy waltz side by side. Much like the dance of life.', 'The scene of contrasts at the conclusion of a low-scoring but captivating duel of fortune-swings between Tamil Nadu and Gujarat here on Monday saw both the home batsmen spreadeagled on the ground in despair while the Tamil Nadu cricketers celebrated with roars of delight after a last-gasp one-run victory.', 'The humdinger in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 competition that saw the host pursuing Tamil Nadu’s 125 for six had ended in a tragic error by Gujarat No. 11 Hardik Patel.', 'With three runs needed off the last ball, the heroic Chirag Gandhi missed a heave off seamer Abhishek Tanwar but the umpire had signalled a wide.', 'Gujarat would not only have secured an additional run but needed just one more to tie off the extra delivery.', 'However, Hardik, not noticing the umpire’s signal, set off for a run. Wicketkeeper N. Jagadeesan relayed the ball swiftly to bowler Tanwar who broke the stumps. It was all over. The thriller had exploded at the finish. Gujarat required 16 runs off the final over.', 'Tamil Nadu skipper R. Ashwin had a choice to make. Washington Sundar with his off-spin had been economical while striking twice. And he had an over left.', 'Ashwin opted for paceman Tanwar who too had been tight till that point but lacked Washington’s experience in these situations.', 'Gandhi (68 n.o., 66b, 4x4, 4x6) promptly dismissed Tanwar for sixes over cover and the straight-field. The goodly, vocal crowd was on its feet. Then came the final twist.', 'Tamil Nadu, which now has two wins from three games, defended a low score with a tigerish resolve.', 'The fielding was outstanding, the throws were on the mark and the side effected four run outs, the pick being a direct hit by substitute J. Kousik from square of the wicket to dismiss Axar Patel.', 'The skiers in the deep were held capably too and it was a big moment when C. Hari Nishanth held the influential Priyank Panchal at long-on off left-arm spinner Sai Kishore. Sai, on a surface where the ball gripped and turned, bowled well.', 'Earlier, Tamil Nadu recovered from early blows struck by the lively and straight Arzan Nagwaswalla; he trapped M. Vijay leg-before and cleaned up Hari Nishaanth after Gujarat opted to field.', 'And leg-spinner Piyush Chawla delighted with his teasing flight and two-way spin. The organised and compact N.S. Chaturved (34), the smooth-stroking Washington (33) and the brisk Jagadeesan (29 n.o.) ensured that the bowlers had something to defend.', 'And defend they did with verve.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Former India fast bowler Subroto Banerjee goes down memory lane
['Subroto Banerjee.', 'Subroto Banerjee has fond memories of the MRF Pace Foundation in its early days and pace legend Dennis Lillee.', 'A paceman with a fluid semi side-on release who got the ball to seam both ways and whose mantra was to “bowl smart,” Subroto made an immediate impact on his Test debut in Sydney.', 'Yet, despite his three for 47 off 18 impressive overs, Subroto never figured in another Test for India.', 'He had his moments in the ODIs, though. These included Brian Lara’s prized scalp in the dramatic tied match of the Benson & Hedges series in Perth and Graeme Hick’s wicket and a blistering late onslaught with the bat against England in the 1992 World Cup humdinger.', 'These days he is coaching Bihar after a successful stint as a bowling coach with Vidarbha that saw the side triumphing in the Ranji Trophy for the first time.', 'The man from Jamshedpur said he was pleased to be giving something back to his home State.', 'Subroto is delighted with the depth in the Indian pace bowling ranks now.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'The call to boycott Pakistan has been made by some prominent voices such as Harbhajan Singh and Sourav Ganguly.']


Banks may set repo rate as  benchmark
['Most commercial banks in India are likely to select RBI’s repo rate as the external benchmark to decide their lending rates, from April 1. The repo rate is the key policy rate of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).', 'The banking regulator had asked the banks to move to an external benchmark for loan pricing from April 1, a move expected to improve monetary transmission as lenders had, in the past, been found reluctant to reduce lending rate.', 'Banks had four options from which to choose the external benchmark: the repo rate, the 91-day treasury bill, the 182-day T-bill or any other benchmark interest rate produced by the Financial Benchmarks India Private Ltd (FBIL).', 'The marginal cost of fund based lending rate (MCLR) is currently the benchmark for all loan rates. Banks typically add a spread to the MCLR while pricing loans for homes and automobiles.', 'For the new benchmark, the central bank has mandated that the spread over the benchmark rate — to be decided by banks at the inception of the loan — should remain unchanged through the life of the loan, unless the borrower’s credit assessment undergoes a substantial change and as agreed upon in the loan contract.', 'If the lending rates are linked to the repo rate, any change in the repo rate will immediately impact the home and auto loan rates, since RBI has mandated the spread to remain fixed over the life of the loan.', 'Many banks have opposed the move to shift to a new external benchmark for loan pricing on grounds that their cost of funds are not linked to these benchmarks and that without a fall in the costs, it would not be possible to change the rates.', 'The issue came up for discussion again last week when RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, along with his deputies, met the bank chiefs to discuss monetary transmission.', 'However, banks are not hopeful that the central bank will defer the introduction of the new benchmark.', 'RBI was expected to issue the final guidelines on the matter by December-end but the guidelines are yet to come. Banking industry sources indicate that the final guidelines will be issued in March.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Pak PM Imran Khan preaches peace, says he ‘stands by’ his words
['No results found. Please refine your search criteria.']


This content has been removed
['Do you know how Salman Khan learnt to swim?', 'No results found. Please refine your search criteria.']


Menace of stray cattle finds resonance among villagers in UP
[]


Sonakshi Sinha, four others booked for 'cheating' event organiser of Rs 37 lakh
['You can change your city from here.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', 'Does this Kathakali painting follow you?', 'Air strikes in Pak: Sanjay Dutt, Sonakshi Sinha, Suniel Shetty, Rajini...', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'Arjun Kapoor-Malaika Arora fight at airport?', 'Air strikes in Pakistan: Kangana Ranaut lauds IAF for striking back li...', "Bipasha Basu's sister Vijayeta Basu gets hitched, opts for court marri...", 'Arjun Kapoor-Malaika Arora fight at airport?', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with ...', 'Air strikes in Pakistan: Kangana Ranaut lauds IAF for s...', 'Varun Dhawan holidays with girlfriend Natasha Dalal in ...', 'Taimur Ali Khan learns to play badminton with mom Karee...', "Bipasha Basu's sister Vijayeta Basu gets hitched, opts ...", 'Funny! Donald Trump dances to the tune of Ranveer Singh...', 'Sushant Singh Rajput drops Sara Ali Khan to her gym alm...', 'Indian Air Force strikes in Pakistan: Bollywood celebs ...', 'Is Deepika Padukone pregnant?', "Kareena Kapoor Khan is excited to watch Kangana Ranaut'...", "Akash Ambani and Shloka Mehta's starry pre-wedding cele...", 'Sara Ali Khan and Ananya Panday take an auto rickshaw r...', 'Internet sensation Lilly Singh aka Superwoman is bisexu...', 'Fraud case: Sonakshi Sinha dismisses accusations, says ...', 'Amitabh Bachchan will fight against discrimination towa...', 'Malaika Arora: I like Arjun Kapoor, this way or that wa...', "Kareena Kapoor Khan doesn't have ambitions like Priyank...", 'This is the reason why Shahid Kapoor chose not to celeb...', 'Enough is enough, says Vidya Balan on Pakistani artiste...', 'Sapna Choudhary dance video: Jaipur dances on ‘Teri Aak...', "Men in Pooja Bedi's life, before she found her Mr Right...", 'Priyanka Chopra-Nick Jonas PDA in parking lot!', 'Urvashi Rautela gets best birthday present from Justin ...', 'Akash Ambani pre-wedding bash: Ranbir Kapoor-Alia Bhatt...', 'Ali Fazal’s nude pics get leaked online, the actor call...', 'Alia Bhatt gives a sneak peek into her luxurious vanity...', "Kartik Aaryan's dance-off with his mother is the cutest...", "Oscars 2019: Rami Malek takes home Best Actor award, 'G...", 'Priyanka Chopra confirms Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora...', 'Ali Fazal’s nude pictures get leaked online, the actor ...', 'Birthday Special : Lesser known facts about Shahid Kapo...', 'Kareena Kapoor Khan opens up about Sara Ali Khan and Ka...', 'Navjot Singh Sidhu banned from entering Film City in Mu...', "Disha Patani performs Tiger Shroff's signature spin and...", 'Saif Ali Khan credits ex-wife Amrita Singh for Sara Ali...', "Sridevi's last advice to daughter Janhvi Kapoor on her ...", 'Ajay Devgn and Kajol celebrate 20 years of marital blis...', "Nidhhi Agerwal's photos will set your weekend mood high...", 'Sara Ali Khan bonds over a cycle ride with brother Ibra...', "Sridevi's first death anniversary: Janhvi Kapoor shares...", 'Janhvi Kapoor shares heartfelt post on Sridevi’s first ...', "Sonakshi Sinha, four others booked for 'cheating' event...", 'Trolls call Priya Prakash Varrier an overrated actress;...', 'Salman Khan, Sanjay Leela Bhansali reunite for a love s...', 'How To Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World - ...', 'SP Chauhan: A Struggling Man - Official Trail...', 'Rashtraputra - The Commander Of Surgical Stri...', 'The Possession Of Hannah Grace - Official Tra...', 'The Dark Side Of Life: Mumbai City - Official...', 'Singer Dev Negi shares what he loves about Bollywood’s ...', 'Exclusive! Ustad Amjad Ali Khan recalls gifting his sha...', "Zayn Malik surprises fans with 'Allah Duhai Hai' rendit...", 'Peh Gaya Khalara singer, Akanksha Bhandari is excited a...', 'Singer Pooja Gaitonde talks about her love for Sufi mus...', 'Singer Ronkini Gupta on why her upcoming concert is spe...', 'Singer couple Samir and Dipalee Date talk about perform...', "Singer Neha Pandey talks about her latest single, 'Busy...", 'Singer Priya Saraiya on her latest single, a Gujarati g...', 'Cardi B and Ozuna talk about the meaning of their lates...', "Vishal Dadlani on 'Swag Se Swagat' hitting 600 million ...", 'Gopi bahu aka Devoleena Bhattacharjee trolled for bold ...', 'Television actors salute the Indian Air Force for strik...', 'Amit Tandon shares tips for those who want to be a stan...', 'Shilpa Shinde gets rape threats for supporting Navjot S...', 'Dancer and ex-Bigg Boss 11 contestant Sapna Choudhary r...', "Super Dance 3's Akshit celebrates birthday with Sanam J...", 'Dipika Kakar replaces Divyanka Tripathi in this new sho...', 'Krushna Abhishek reveals truth behind Archana Puran Sin...', "Danish Zehen's brother Guffran Mullah reacts on harassm...", 'Negative characters offer more scope to perform: Sourab...', "Bigg Boss 12's Dipika Kakar Ibrahim and Shoaib celebra...", 'On the sets of Ishq Mein Marjawan: Deep to celebrate Ar...', "On the sets of Divya Drishti with 'Pischachini' Sangeet...", 'Bhojpuri sensation Monalisa raises temperature with her...', 'Archana Puran Singh reacts on replacing Navjot Singh Si...', 'Arjun Bijlani, Rashami Desai, Deepika Singh enjoy with ...', 'Sanam Johar and Abigail Pandey set the stage on fire w...', "Fire at 'Bhabi Ji Ghar Par Hain' actress Saumya Tandon’...", 'TV actor Nishant Singh Malkani talks about the strength...', 'Pulwama attack: Kapil Sharma reacts after fans urged Sa...', "Cast of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai's spin-off performs ...", 'Deepika Singh Goyal talks about the kind of roles she l...', "Krushna Abhishek opens up on Sidhu's ouster from 'The K...", 'Pulwama terror attack: Actress Lovey Sasan meets family...', 'Sidhu row: Kavita Kaushik and Mahhi Vij back Kapil Shar...', "What's In My Jewellery Box with Shakti fame Garima Jain...", "Krushna Abhishek opens up on Sidhu's ouster from 'The K...", "Archana Puran Singh's grand entry in 'The Kapil Sharma ...", 'Rubina Dilaik trolled for ignoring Pulwama terror attac...', "Kushal Tondon trolled back on Karanvir Bohra's post on ...", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look....', 'If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valent...', "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calen...", 'Watching this elderly couple working out will make your...', 'Why rasmalai is the healthiest dessert this shaadi seas...', "Deepika will be the prettiest bride ever, here's proof!", 'Rajnigandha Pearls TVC featuring Apeksha Porwal and Anu...', 'Ex model with brain cancer says her fiance dumped her b...', 'Former Miss USA Shanna Moakler accepts  #10 year challe...', 'Beauty queen diagnosed with cancer after getting manicu...', 'Mexico welcomes their new queen  the reigning Miss Worl...', 'Malaysia King resigns amid marriage rumours with Russia...', 'Jai Veeru Teaser - Ruhi Singh, Prince Narula, Suyyash R...', "Model's sexy bikini video fails when shower head falls ...", "Rohit Khandelwal's journey from Mr India to Mister Worl...", 'Vishnu Raj Menon talks about his childhood Christmas me...', 'Shubhangi Dwivedi crowned KIIT Nanhipari  Little Miss I...', 'Muslim Women in Malaysia denied participation in beauty...', 'Former Miss Universe shows off her stretch marks in a b...', 'Sushrii Shreya Mishraa  2018 has been a milestone year ...', "Uganda's President tells Miss World Africa to wear natu...", "Model's ex BF allegedly kidnaps her ailing father over ...", "Prathamesh Maulingkar's star studded victory celebratio...", 'Beauty queen caught unaware as her topless footage goes...', "Prathamesh Maulingkar's fans and family excited to welc...", 'India bags 1st runner up spot at Miss Teen Internationa...', 'Sushmita Sen congratulates Miss Universe 2018 Catriona ...', "Prathamesh Maulingkar's preparation highlights for Mist...", 'Bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh on her goals to make Mumbai...', 'Vardhan Puri on how theatre has taught him valuable act...', 'Mumbaikars enjoy a game of bungee soccer at a mall in W...', 'Pianist Sourendro and singer Soumyojit excited to perfo...', 'Jaden Smith arrives at Mumbai Airport for his show in P...', 'Mumbai locals in conversation with Ratna Pathak Shah at...', 'Sapna Desai Mane: Till a few years ago, people would no...', 'Siddhi Shah confesses that being a woman in male-domina...', 'Mitali Khargaonkar Vinchurkar says that people always f...', 'Professional drummer Siddhi Shah believes that Mumbai’s...', 'Neesha Mokal talks about her aim to play lesser-known p...', "Watch: Senior citizens celebrate Valentine's Day in Mum...", 'Disco went live with Anushka Manchanda at the KGAF stag...', 'Samar Farooqui talks about the powerful benefits of sla...', 'Grand Master Akshar talks about the importance of yoga ...', "Why director Akarsh Khurana can never miss Anurag Basu'...", 'The blessing director Akarsh Khurana seeks from Maa Sar...', 'Popular Bollywood songs like ‘Kar gayi Chull’ and ‘Pehl...', 'Apache Indian rocks the Kala Ghoda festival stage at th...', 'Sukriti and Prakriti Kakar slay it at the Kala Ghoda Ar...', 'Mumbaikars go on an Irani cafés walk at the Kala Ghoda ...', 'Visitors enjoy foot massage by visually impaired studen...', 'Padmini Kolhapure, Prachi Shah spotted at a wedding exh...', 'Sitarist Purbayan Chatterjee to perform alongside Ustad...', 'Gay couple Vinodh Philip and Vincent Illaire on why the...', 'Young singers and music composers jamming together in B...', 'Mumbai: 300 school students create awareness on road sa...', 'TV actress Kamalika Guha Thakurta performs at Kala Ghod...', 'TiEcon Mumbai: Shruti Haasan talks about her journey in...', 'TiEcon Mumbai: Manish Malhotra participates in panel di...', 'Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia enthralled the audience at ...', 'Mumbaikars applaud as Japanese artistes perform Bharatn...', 'Italian street artist Francesco Camillo Giorgino gives ...', 'Freestyle motocross athletes, wow Mumbaikars with their...', 'PM Narendra Modi interacts with Mithibai’s young innova...', "Zakir hussian and team rehearsing for Abbaji's 'A homag...", 'Is She Raju?', "ETimes is an Entertainment, TV & Lifestyle industry's promotional website and carries advertorials and native advertising."]


Navjot Singh Sidhu banned from entering Film City in Mumbai post his remark on Pulwama terror attack
['You can change your city from here.', 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look...', 'Does this Kathakali painting follow you?', "Navjot Singh Sidhu, who used to be the special guest at 'The Kapil Sharma Show', was recently sacked from the show. And now, the cricketer-turned-politician has been banned from entering the Film City in Mumbai. The decision has been taken by the Federation of Western India Cine Employees after a meeting that was held in Mumbai. The Federation had also announced a complete ban on working with Pakistani artists in India. It has directed the Indian filmmakers not to work with Pakistani artistes and also not to release their films in Pakistan.", 'Air strikes in Pak: Sanjay Dutt, Sonakshi Sinha and Suniel Shetty salu...', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'Arjun Kapoor-Malaika Arora fight at airport?', 'Air strikes in Pakistan: Kangana Ranaut lauds IAF for striking back li...', "Bipasha Basu's sister Vijayeta Basu gets hitched, opts for court marri...", 'Arjun Kapoor-Malaika Arora fight at airport?', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with ...', 'Air strikes in Pakistan: Kangana Ranaut lauds IAF for s...', 'Varun Dhawan holidays with girlfriend Natasha Dalal in ...', 'Taimur Ali Khan learns to play badminton with mom Karee...', "Bipasha Basu's sister Vijayeta Basu gets hitched, opts ...", 'Funny! Donald Trump dances to the tune of Ranveer Singh...', 'Sushant Singh Rajput drops Sara Ali Khan to her gym alm...', 'Indian Air Force strikes in Pakistan: Bollywood celebs ...', 'Is Deepika Padukone pregnant?', "Kareena Kapoor Khan is excited to watch Kangana Ranaut'...", "Akash Ambani and Shloka Mehta's starry pre-wedding cele...", 'Sara Ali Khan and Ananya Panday take an auto rickshaw r...', 'Internet sensation Lilly Singh aka Superwoman is bisexu...', 'Fraud case: Sonakshi Sinha dismisses accusations, says ...', 'Amitabh Bachchan will fight against discrimination towa...', 'Malaika Arora: I like Arjun Kapoor, this way or that wa...', "Kareena Kapoor Khan doesn't have ambitions like Priyank...", 'This is the reason why Shahid Kapoor chose not to celeb...', 'Enough is enough, says Vidya Balan on Pakistani artiste...', 'Sapna Choudhary dance video: Jaipur dances on ‘Teri Aak...', "Men in Pooja Bedi's life, before she found her Mr Right...", 'Priyanka Chopra-Nick Jonas PDA in parking lot!', 'Urvashi Rautela gets best birthday present from Justin ...', 'Akash Ambani pre-wedding bash: Ranbir Kapoor-Alia Bhatt...', 'Ali Fazal’s nude pics get leaked online, the actor call...', 'Alia Bhatt gives a sneak peek into her luxurious vanity...', "Kartik Aaryan's dance-off with his mother is the cutest...", "Oscars 2019: Rami Malek takes home Best Actor award, 'G...", 'Priyanka Chopra confirms Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora...', 'Ali Fazal’s nude pictures get leaked online, the actor ...', 'Birthday Special : Lesser known facts about Shahid Kapo...', 'Kareena Kapoor Khan opens up about Sara Ali Khan and Ka...', 'Navjot Singh Sidhu banned from entering Film City in Mu...', "Disha Patani performs Tiger Shroff's signature spin and...", 'Saif Ali Khan credits ex-wife Amrita Singh for Sara Ali...', "Sridevi's last advice to daughter Janhvi Kapoor on her ...", 'Ajay Devgn and Kajol celebrate 20 years of marital blis...', "Nidhhi Agerwal's photos will set your weekend mood high...", 'Sara Ali Khan bonds over a cycle ride with brother Ibra...', "Sridevi's first death anniversary: Janhvi Kapoor shares...", 'Janhvi Kapoor shares heartfelt post on Sridevi’s first ...', "Sonakshi Sinha, four others booked for 'cheating' event...", 'Trolls call Priya Prakash Varrier an overrated actress;...', 'Salman Khan, Sanjay Leela Bhansali reunite for a love s...', 'How To Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World - ...', 'SP Chauhan: A Struggling Man - Official Trail...', 'Rashtraputra - The Commander Of Surgical Stri...', 'The Possession Of Hannah Grace - Official Tra...', 'The Dark Side Of Life: Mumbai City - Official...', 'Singer Dev Negi shares what he loves about Bollywood’s ...', 'Exclusive! Ustad Amjad Ali Khan recalls gifting his sha...', "Zayn Malik surprises fans with 'Allah Duhai Hai' rendit...", 'Peh Gaya Khalara singer, Akanksha Bhandari is excited a...', 'Singer Pooja Gaitonde talks about her love for Sufi mus...', 'Singer Ronkini Gupta on why her upcoming concert is spe...', 'Singer couple Samir and Dipalee Date talk about perform...', "Singer Neha Pandey talks about her latest single, 'Busy...", 'Singer Priya Saraiya on her latest single, a Gujarati g...', 'Cardi B and Ozuna talk about the meaning of their lates...', "Vishal Dadlani on 'Swag Se Swagat' hitting 600 million ...", 'Gopi bahu aka Devoleena Bhattacharjee trolled for bold ...', 'Television actors salute the Indian Air Force for strik...', 'Amit Tandon shares tips for those who want to be a stan...', 'Shilpa Shinde gets rape threats for supporting Navjot S...', 'Dancer and ex-Bigg Boss 11 contestant Sapna Choudhary r...', "Super Dance 3's Akshit celebrates birthday with Sanam J...", 'Dipika Kakar replaces Divyanka Tripathi in this new sho...', 'Krushna Abhishek reveals truth behind Archana Puran Sin...', "Danish Zehen's brother Guffran Mullah reacts on harassm...", 'Negative characters offer more scope to perform: Sourab...', "Bigg Boss 12's Dipika Kakar Ibrahim and Shoaib celebra...", 'On the sets of Ishq Mein Marjawan: Deep to celebrate Ar...', "On the sets of Divya Drishti with 'Pischachini' Sangeet...", 'Bhojpuri sensation Monalisa raises temperature with her...', 'Archana Puran Singh reacts on replacing Navjot Singh Si...', 'Arjun Bijlani, Rashami Desai, Deepika Singh enjoy with ...', 'Sanam Johar and Abigail Pandey set the stage on fire w...', "Fire at 'Bhabi Ji Ghar Par Hain' actress Saumya Tandon’...", 'TV actor Nishant Singh Malkani talks about the strength...', 'Pulwama attack: Kapil Sharma reacts after fans urged Sa...', "Cast of Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai's spin-off performs ...", 'Deepika Singh Goyal talks about the kind of roles she l...', "Krushna Abhishek opens up on Sidhu's ouster from 'The K...", 'Pulwama terror attack: Actress Lovey Sasan meets family...', 'Sidhu row: Kavita Kaushik and Mahhi Vij back Kapil Shar...', "What's In My Jewellery Box with Shakti fame Garima Jain...", "Krushna Abhishek opens up on Sidhu's ouster from 'The K...", "Archana Puran Singh's grand entry in 'The Kapil Sharma ...", 'Rubina Dilaik trolled for ignoring Pulwama terror attac...', "Kushal Tondon trolled back on Karanvir Bohra's post on ...", 'There is an apartment inside Eiffel Tower! Take a look....', 'If given a chance, what would you like to rename Valent...', "Confused about Valentine's week days? Here's your calen...", 'Watching this elderly couple working out will make your...', 'Why rasmalai is the healthiest dessert this shaadi seas...', "Deepika will be the prettiest bride ever, here's proof!", 'Rajnigandha Pearls TVC featuring Apeksha Porwal and Anu...', 'Ex model with brain cancer says her fiance dumped her b...', 'Former Miss USA Shanna Moakler accepts  #10 year challe...', 'Beauty queen diagnosed with cancer after getting manicu...', 'Mexico welcomes their new queen  the reigning Miss Worl...', 'Malaysia King resigns amid marriage rumours with Russia...', 'Jai Veeru Teaser - Ruhi Singh, Prince Narula, Suyyash R...', "Model's sexy bikini video fails when shower head falls ...", "Rohit Khandelwal's journey from Mr India to Mister Worl...", 'Vishnu Raj Menon talks about his childhood Christmas me...', 'Shubhangi Dwivedi crowned KIIT Nanhipari  Little Miss I...', 'Muslim Women in Malaysia denied participation in beauty...', 'Former Miss Universe shows off her stretch marks in a b...', 'Sushrii Shreya Mishraa  2018 has been a milestone year ...', "Uganda's President tells Miss World Africa to wear natu...", "Model's ex BF allegedly kidnaps her ailing father over ...", "Prathamesh Maulingkar's star studded victory celebratio...", 'Beauty queen caught unaware as her topless footage goes...', "Prathamesh Maulingkar's fans and family excited to welc...", 'India bags 1st runner up spot at Miss Teen Internationa...', 'Sushmita Sen congratulates Miss Universe 2018 Catriona ...', "Prathamesh Maulingkar's preparation highlights for Mist...", 'Bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh on her goals to make Mumbai...', 'Vardhan Puri on how theatre has taught him valuable act...', 'Mumbaikars enjoy a game of bungee soccer at a mall in W...', 'Pianist Sourendro and singer Soumyojit excited to perfo...', 'Jaden Smith arrives at Mumbai Airport for his show in P...', 'Mumbai locals in conversation with Ratna Pathak Shah at...', 'Sapna Desai Mane: Till a few years ago, people would no...', 'Siddhi Shah confesses that being a woman in male-domina...', 'Mitali Khargaonkar Vinchurkar says that people always f...', 'Professional drummer Siddhi Shah believes that Mumbai’s...', 'Neesha Mokal talks about her aim to play lesser-known p...', "Watch: Senior citizens celebrate Valentine's Day in Mum...", 'Disco went live with Anushka Manchanda at the KGAF stag...', 'Samar Farooqui talks about the powerful benefits of sla...', 'Grand Master Akshar talks about the importance of yoga ...', "Why director Akarsh Khurana can never miss Anurag Basu'...", 'The blessing director Akarsh Khurana seeks from Maa Sar...', 'Popular Bollywood songs like ‘Kar gayi Chull’ and ‘Pehl...', 'Apache Indian rocks the Kala Ghoda festival stage at th...', 'Sukriti and Prakriti Kakar slay it at the Kala Ghoda Ar...', 'Mumbaikars go on an Irani cafés walk at the Kala Ghoda ...', 'Visitors enjoy foot massage by visually impaired studen...', 'Padmini Kolhapure, Prachi Shah spotted at a wedding exh...', 'Sitarist Purbayan Chatterjee to perform alongside Ustad...', 'Gay couple Vinodh Philip and Vincent Illaire on why the...', 'Young singers and music composers jamming together in B...', 'Mumbai: 300 school students create awareness on road sa...', 'TV actress Kamalika Guha Thakurta performs at Kala Ghod...', 'TiEcon Mumbai: Shruti Haasan talks about her journey in...', 'TiEcon Mumbai: Manish Malhotra participates in panel di...', 'Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia enthralled the audience at ...', 'Mumbaikars applaud as Japanese artistes perform Bharatn...', 'Italian street artist Francesco Camillo Giorgino gives ...', 'Freestyle motocross athletes, wow Mumbaikars with their...', 'PM Narendra Modi interacts with Mithibai’s young innova...', "Zakir hussian and team rehearsing for Abbaji's 'A homag...", 'Is She Raju?', "ETimes is an Entertainment, TV & Lifestyle industry's promotional website and carries advertorials and native advertising."]


Letters to the Editor - February 26, 2019
['The story of how a pregnant woman was given HIV-infected blood is heartbreaking (“State govt. to give ‘high quality’ treatment to HIV-infected woman”, Dec. 27). If a government hospital is so callous, I would go as far as to say that this points to a total absence of governance in Tamil Nadu. The government is busy with its damage-control exercise, but its responsibility does not end with terminating the services of three employees of the hospital. The woman must be properly compensated. The Health Minister should step down just as Lal Bahadur Shastri did after a rail accident in 1956. But expecting politicians today to step down on moral grounds is perhaps a tall order.', 'The incident raises doubts about whether we can trust hospitals to even carry out simple blood transfusions. Merely sacking the staff is not enough. Were protocols followed? Do we need to test blood samples more often than currently required? These and more questions need to be asked. This is a very costly lapse by the authorities. State-run hospitals need to do more to win the trust of the public.', 'The people of Tamil Nadu are aware that the ruling AIADMK is ineffective, as was seen in the killing of protesters by the police in Thoothukudi (“AIADMK-BJP electoral alliance in the offing?”, Dec. 27). The people of the State are also angry with the BJP for the NEET fiasco, the Mekedatu dam issue, for allegedly not sanctioning funds in the wake of disasters like Cyclone Gaja, and the inhuman treatment of protesting Tamil Nadu farmers in Delhi. If these two parties ally, they will only face defeat. Not even Rajnikanth can save the BJP.', 'The rich and elite seem to have a passion for killing wildlife (“Golfer Jyoti Randhawa held on poaching charge”, Dec. 27). This can only be stopped if we implement laws rigorously. I hope this will start with the Randhawa case, but given how the blackbuck poaching case was handled, one doesn’t have much hope.', 'With Asia Bibi celebrating Christmas in hiding, and watchdog Open Doors listing Pakistan as among the world’s worst persecutors of Christians, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s statement on minorities shows his lack of political acumen (“Imran’s distorted logic’’, December 27). Unless the Janus-faced country stops being so intolerant towards its minorities, it can never maintain cordial relations with any nation.', 'Imran Khan’s tweet is baffling. Forget Christians and Hindus, even Ahmadis and Shias are persecuted in Pakistan, an ‘Islamic Republic’. Even hypocrisy and whataboutery have their limits.', 'If Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray really meant what he said about the Prime Minister, the party should withdraw from the NDA alliance (“Uddhav’s jibe at PM leaves RSS fuming”, Dec. 27). And if he did not mean it, he should express remorse. The Shiv Sena cannot have its cake and eat it too.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Pre-poll gambit: on reduction of GST on under-construction properties
['On Sunday, the Goods and Services Tax Council recommended a dramatic reduction in the headline indirect tax rates payable on under-construction properties. The GST rate payable on affordable homes, with effect from April 2019, will come down from 8% to 1%, and all other residential properties outside the affordable segment will attract 5% GST instead of the 12% levied at present. The new rate on affordable homes, defined as units that cost less than ₹45 lakh and have a carpet area of 60 square metres in metro cities and 90 square metres in non-metros, is far lower than the 3% rate mooted by a ministerial panel. The Council needs to meet again in March to clear the transition rules for the proposed rate cuts, and the conditions to be stipulated for housing projects to be eligible for the new rates. Days ahead of the expected announcement of the Lok Sabha poll dates by the Election Commission, the government is clearly keen on reaching out to different sections of voters. It has argued that the move will help meet the aspirations of millions of home-buyers, and revive the fortunes of real estate developers. Among the country’s largest employers in recent years, the realty sector has been marred by the debt overdose that has plagued much of corporate India; this has been compounded by high unsold inventory that hit cash flows. Properties that were already complete at the time of the GST’s adoption were spared the tax. But the introduction of 12% and 8% GST for under-construction premier housing units and affordable homes, respectively, had come as a dampener for fresh bookings.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley reckons that revenues will not be hit by the rate cut. The implicit assumption is that higher sales volumes will compensate the exchequer. Experts expect a 4-5% reduction in home prices, but the decision to deny input tax credits to builders could bring a twist in the tale. Developers may be forced to raise base prices as critical inputs, particularly cement (taxed at 28%), entail high levies that can no longer be offset. Buyers may still prefer to opt for unsold completed properties that don’t attract GST, instead of incomplete projects. Compliance as well as material costs could go up too, as the Council is likely to mandate that around 80% of a project’s inputs must come from formal sector vendors in the GST net. It is difficult to determine to what extent a proposed tax exemption on development rights will offset these costs for developers. Whatever the outcome of this pre-election ploy, the frequent structural tinkering ahead of electoral battles has emerged as the biggest challenge to the stabilisation of India’s fledgling GST regime.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Before eviction: on SC verdict on forest-dwellers
['The Supreme Court’s order to evict, over the next five months, occupants of forest lands who failed to make a successful claim for tenure under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, has once again highlighted the dilemma of reconciling inalienable tribal rights with biodiversity conservation. When the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act was passed, it was with the wholly welfarist goal of making these communities partners in conservation. They would be stewards of forests that have shrunk and become fragmented over the decades. It was another landmark, therefore, when the Forest Rights Act protected possession and conferred heritability of land to over 23 lakh out of 44 lakh claimants who are either specified Scheduled Tribes, or people who have lived in forests traditionally, relying on forest produce for at least 75 years prior to the cut-off year of 2005. But over 20 lakh other applicants who could not establish their claim through gram sabhas and appellate authorities have now been ordered to be evicted by July 12. The 17 State governments which have been asked to carry out the evictions must respond by quickly determining whether there were procedural lapses that deprived applicants of due process, notably in making appeals. This process may take time, more so in an election year, and the sheer scale of action required would necessitate an extension of the eviction date.', 'In the ideal scheme, as the Forest Rights Act envisages, forested areas and their biodiversity will be protected by communities, with individuals taking forest produce only for sustenance and livelihood. Such an approach is at odds with the colonial paradigm of forests being treated as a resource run by an opaque bureaucracy that replaced precious old-growth trees with monocultures such as teak. Today, forests have shrunk to about 5% of the land in terms of protected areas, while human pressures are growing: landscapes are alienated for resource exploitation, road and dam building, and a lot of wildlife is lost to poaching. Man-animal conflict is growing. Claims for tenure under the Forest Rights Act must therefore satisfy the primary test of whether they are legally unimpeachable, and even if they are, whether they would impose additional pressures on forests and wildlife. The answer in many areas may lie in resettlement. In some well-documented cases, such as in the Western Ghats, alternative land and cash compensation convinced tribals to move out of core areas. One example is that of the Nagarahole National Park, where the outcome has been good for both people and wildlife, as evidenced by the recovery of tiger density over three decades. State governments need to pursue such programmes in a humane and vigorous fashion. They must also come forward to declare critical wildlife habitats under the Act. This will aid in formulating resettlement schemes for tribal residents.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The correct prescription
['Prashant Reddy T.', 'Prashant Reddy T.', 'Amid a slew of conflicting judicial decisions from different High Courts, the legality of e-pharmacies continues to be questioned by various trade associations such as the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). It represents 8.4 lakh pharmacists who run the brick and mortar pharmacies in neighbourhoods across India.', 'E-pharmacies, which operate through websites or smartphone apps on the Internet, offer medicines for sale at a discount of at least 20% when compared to traditional pharmacists, with the added convenience of home delivery of medicines to one’s doorstep. For scheduled drugs, patients can submit photographs of prescriptions while placing orders. Despite operating in India for at least four years now, the legal status of these e-pharmacies is not clear because the government is yet to notify into law draft rules that it published in 2018.', 'The fiercest opponents of e-pharmacies are trade associations of existing pharmacists and chemists. They argue that their livelihoods are threatened by venture capital backed e-pharmacies and that jobs of thousands are on the line. Apart from these obvious arguments, these trade associations also spin imaginary tales of how e-pharmacies will open the door to drug abuse and also the sale of sub-standard or counterfeit drugs, thereby threatening public health. There is enough evidence on record to demonstrate how existing pharmacies contribute generously to drug abuse and sale of sub-standard medicine. There is no reason to suspect that e-pharmacies are going to worsen the situation in anyway.', 'The more prudent way of looking at the entry of e-pharmacies is competition and the resultant effect it will have on lowering the price of medicine for Indian patients. Viewed from this perspective, there is virtually no doubt that e-pharmacies should be allowed to operate because the history of India’s trade associations of pharmacists is one of rampant, unabashed cartelisation that has resulted in an artificial inflation of medicine prices.', 'In a fully functional, competitive market, pharmacists would compete with each other for business. This competition could happen in the form of discounts or improving operational efficiency. For example, if two retailers buy a medicine from a wholesaler at ₹50 and the maximum retail price of the drug is ₹75, they are free to sell it at ₹70 or ₹65 or even ₹51. The seller with the lower price gets more customers and can make more profits. However, if both sellers enter into an agreement with each other to sell the drug at ₹75 and they also clearly define the geographical area within which they are operating, they both make higher profits but at the cost of the patient who now has to pay higher prices.', 'This practice of two competitors colluding to fix the sale price and area of operation is called cartelisation, and is illegal under India’s Competition Act. The premise of this law is that a free market is efficient only if all sellers are competing with each other to offer the lowest price to the customer.', 'Over the last decade, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has had to deal with several complaints alleging that trade associations of pharmacists are providing platforms for cartelisation where pharmacists are basically rigging the market. In simple terms, this means that pharmacists, who should otherwise be competing with each other to offer lower prices for their customers, prefer to enter into agreements with each other to fix the price at which they will sell medicines to patients. Once all parties are on the same page, there is no reason to compete with each other and reduce prices.', 'A second, more insidious strategy is the practice of requiring pharmaceutical companies to apply for a no-objection-certificate (NOC) from the regional trade association before they appoint new stockists in a region to sell a particular drug. This has the effect of artificially restricting competition in certain markets because more stockists mean more competition. By creating such artificial, extra-legal barriers to the free trade of medicines within India, these trade associations create huge distortions in the Indian market. It is suspected that these practices continue despite multiple restraining orders by the CCI.', 'In its recent policy note on “Making markets work for affordable healthcare”, published in October 2018, the CCI noted, “One major factor that contributes to high drug prices in India is the unreasonably high trade margins.” One of the culprits for this phenomenon identified by the CCI was “self-regulation by trade associations [which] also contributes towards high margins as these trade associations control the entire drug distribution system in a manner that mutes competition”.', 'Where the state has failed, it is possible that venture capitalist backed e-pharmacists will succeed in bringing back competition to the retail drug markets in India. There is no reason for India to continue indulging trade associations that have no taste for competition or fair business practices.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Coalition of the concerned
['In the wake of the Pulwama attack on February 14, the government has iterated once again its plan for the “diplomatic isolation” of Pakistan. The idea, which was first articulated after the 2016 Uri attacks, is a non-starter, as was underlined by the visit of the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman to both countries earlier this month, just a few days after Pulwama. In Pakistan, the Prince called himself “Pakistan’s Ambassador” in his country, and issued a joint statement praising Pakistan for its fight against terrorism. Clearly, a more considered diplomatic strategy, less full of rhetoric, must be chalked out by the government in response to cross-border terrorism.', 'To begin with, the government would do better to repackage its idea of “isolating Pakistan” into one of building a more inclusive ‘coalition against terrorism emanating from Pakistan’. In the past couple of weeks alone, Iran and Afghanistan have faced terror attacks on their security forces along the border with Pakistan — and several other countries, which have also faced such attacks or see the presence of Pakistan-based groups on their soil, would be willing to join ranks on this. The truth is, in today’s interconnected world, it is vainglorious to expect countries to join a unilateral plan for isolation.', 'Despite the U.S.’s considerable might, it has been unable to get most countries, including India, to sever ties with Iran and North Korea, for example. The impact of such a campaign is also doubtful: after years of trying to isolate North Korea, the U.S. is pursuing talks with its leader. While isolation might work as a campaign slogan for domestic audiences, it is quickly rebuffed each time a country engages with the nation one is trying to isolate. An inclusive coalition is more likely to move nations at the global stage as well. The success of the efforts led by the U.S. and other countries to ‘grey list’ Pakistan at the Financial Action Task Force or of French efforts for a United Nations Security Council statement on Pulwama points to that.', 'Second, India must focus on the case against Masood Azhar, which pre-dates the case against 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed. In a first, the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) claimed responsibility for the Pulwama attack in a suicide bomber video that has not thus far been disputed by its leader Masood Azhar. Azhar has been on the U.S.’s radar since 1992, when he was a leader of the banned terror group Harkat ul-Ansar, and worked with jihadi groups in Sudan and Bangladesh. His release after years in Indian prisons in exchange for hostages on board the IC-814 flight should on its own merit his banning and prosecution — not just in Pakistan, but in all the countries whose nationals were on board that Indian Airlines flight, as well as the stops that flight made: in Nepal, the United Arab Emirates and Afghanistan.', 'Third, India must prepare for a pushback from Pakistan, most likely in terms of internationalising the Kashmir issue, and linking it to progress in Afghanistan. This is what Pakistan’s Ambassador to Afghanistan, Zahid Nasrullah, did when he said that any attack by India would “impact the momentum” of the peace talks in Afghanistan. His words were heard beyond Kabul, in Washington and Moscow. On February 18, members of the Taliban negotiating team were due to meet U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad in Islamabad. The talks were called off after Afghanistan objected to the Taliban team’s travel to Pakistan, and rescheduled for February 25 in Doha. It remains to be seen how much countries trying to negotiate with the Taliban will need Pakistan’s leverage to make progress on those talks. U.S. President Donald Trump sees them as the precursor for plans to pull out most troops in combat in Afghanistan before his re-election bid for 2020.', 'Next, the government must prioritise action over words, when it comes to moves against Pakistan’s sponsorship and hosting of the JeM. The measures taken thus far — cancelling Most Favoured Nation status, maximising use of Indus waters, denying visas to Pakistani sportspersons, etc. — have little real impact on Pakistan and certainly none on the military establishment. Instead of priding itself on extracting statements of condemnation from various governments in the world, it is better for New Delhi to use India’s considerable diplomatic leverage to ensure action that would shut down the JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) permanently and bring their leaders to justice. In this regard, mere statements and bans have not worked for more than two decades, and the government must consider other options, especially with the countries that carry the most leverage and access in Pakistan: China, the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.', 'It is puzzling that the U.S. has been able to carry out drone strikes on a whole host of terror group leaders on Pakistan’s western front, but never once targeted camps and infrastructure belonging to the JeM and the LeT, despite their well-established links to al-Qaeda. India must also press the U.S. to place travel sanctions on specific entities in the Pakistani military establishment unless visible action is taken against the JeM, whose leaders hold public rallies and issue videos threatening India.', 'Contrary to popular perception, the Trump administration’s moves to cancel funds to Pakistan last year is not the toughest action the U.S. has contemplated: in May 1992, then U.S. President George H.W Bush had directed his Secretary of State James Baker to send a stern letter to then Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif threatening to designate Pakistan as a “State sponsor of Terror” for its support to Kashmiri and Sikh militant groups.', 'A similar line of talks must be pursued by New Delhi with Riyadh — which once was a donor to Pakistan’s Islamist institutions, but now is wary of funding extremism — to withhold any funds that may trickle down to charitable wings run by the JeM and LeT. With China, it is surprising that the issue of a simple ban at the UN Security Council has not been made India’s chief demand from Beijing. It is hoped that this will be rectified soon when the next proposal to ban Azhar is brought to the UNSC, and during Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj’s visit to China this week for the trilateral Russia-India-China meeting. More than the ban, however, India must ask China for action against any entities dealing with the JeM in Pakistan, given that China is the partner with the most influence in Pakistan today, and one with the most to lose from terror groups in Punjab operating along the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.', 'Finally, India must look to its own actions on the diplomatic front with Pakistan. Calling off a formal dialogue process for more than a decade has clearly yielded no desired outcome. South Asia as a region, and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) process too have suffered the consequences of this disengagement, without yielding any desired outcomes. A measured, steady and non-political level of dialogue is a more effective way of impressing India’s determination to root out terrorism than the present on-again, off-again policy. As the nation prepares for a possible military response to the Pulwama attack, it is important that New Delhi consider its diplomatic response carefully, particularly taking into account both the historical and regional context of its moves.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


What is restorative justice in law
['This refers to a form of criminal justice where the major emphasis of court proceedings is on repairing the damages imposed by a criminal on the victim of the crime. This view of criminal justice is in direct contrast to the modern criminal justice system that is focused primarily on retribution against the criminal. Restorative justice closely involves the victim of a crime in the judicial process so that proper compensation is offered to him through the imposition of an appropriate penalty on the person who committed the crime. Under the restorative justice system, a crime is not viewed as an act against the law but simply as an issue between the criminal and the victim.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Cartoonscape - Feb 25, 2019
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Here are 10 cartoons by The Hindu’s cartoonists Keshav and Surendra that our readers loved the most.']


Old challenges in building a new Kerala
['For any purposeful rebuilding, we need to identify both the strength and capabilities of the State as well as its major failures. Kerala has a fascinating human development narrative and a rich biodiversity. Since the Communist Party of India ascended to power in Kerala in 1957, the State has abolished landlordism, managed a literacy rate that is more than 90%, provided affordable healthcare, ensured decentralised people’s planning, and seen the growing inflow of foreign remittances. However, social failures such as widening inequality, marginalisation of the most vulnerable sections of society, an increase in the crime rate, atrocities against women and children, a high suicide rate, and road accidents have been ignored by decision-makers.', 'Antonio Gramsci famously said that politics means conscious action (praxis) in pursuit of a common goal. While adversarial politics is part of democratic practice, the polarising approach which Kerala witnesses today is unhelpful in the context of rebuilding. New political idioms through discussions are important, for no society can meaningfully function without some presumption of trust and openness. The State needs significant transparency guarantees. Transparency guarantees — “the freedom to deal with one another under guarantees of disclosure and lucidity”, as Amartya Sen observes — have an instrumental role “in preventing corruption, financial irresponsibility and underhand dealings”. Rent-seeking and growing disregard for the rule of law cannot be the basis for rebuilding.', 'Today Kerala is told that it should recapture the spirit of renaissance. One needs to clarify this. It is discovering and rediscovering the essence of humanity, which has been under a cloud in recent times. Like the Enlightenment in Europe that threw up reason against religious fundamentalism, Narayana Guru brought out the significance of freedom for those who were suffering caste and class unfreedoms. The moot question is whether Kerala will sink preconceived religious prejudices and political fundamentalism and imbue the public sphere with reason.', 'The project requires the participation of the local government, and decentralised planning. The third tier of governance in Kerala comprising nearly 22,000 elected representatives is known for its multistage planning process and people’s participation. What is wrong in making the local government the centre of recovery and rebuilding?', 'The current debates and the PDNA report are silent on urban governance. Several problems in Kerala arise out of the failure to address the issue of a rising urban population. Urban Kerala has the highest monthly per capita consumption expenditure in India. As a result, the report estimates the daily municipal solid waste production in Kerala to be at 10,044 tonnes. This is besides the colossal disaster debris that remains to be cleared. It is not difficult to revive the gram sabha spirit of the past as part of the rebuilding project. Section 55 of the Kerala Municipality Act, 1994 provides for the creation of a State Development Council presided over by the Chief Minister with the Chief Secretary as Convener and comprising members of the Council of Ministers and leaders of panchayats and municipalities. Both the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front have wasted this institution. The State Development Council can be made the umbrella organisation that will integrate the Nava Kerala Mission and the local government to serve as the centrepiece of the rebuilding project.', 'Many people speak of making Kerala a green State. A green economy is not possible without an understanding of the havoc that has been done to the land-use pattern through indifferent policies and action. Reminiscent of Keats’ line, “a thing of beauty is a joy forever”, Kerala has to be consciously conserved — not just for tourists but for everyone. Human beings have to rely on nature’s resources for survival, but aggressive development invites nature’s wrath in the form of landslides and floods.', 'The change in land-use pattern and water management has resulted in a sharp decline in the area under paddy: from 35% of the crop area in the 1960s to 7% today. Rice cultivation is done on watershed basis. The water scarcity that Kerala faces today is largely linked to paddy reclamation. Since the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act was belatedly passed in 2008, not much has happened except the ratification of all the illegal transgressions.', 'Unless we realise that the quarrying, metal crushing and sand mining mafias are endangering Kerala’s ecosystem, no meaningful land use and mining policy can be implemented. The Seventh Report of the Legislative Environment Committee regarding the working of the quarries speaks of the pathological environmental management underway in Kerala. Placating vocal voter interests (as in throwing away the Gadgil report) can never be the way to build common good and sustainable development. The PDNA recommendations for an integrated water resource management approach should never be neglected.', 'Why the tribals and the historically marginalised remain neglected is a question that needs to be raised as part of the rebuilding project. Indeed, the disasters have brought to sharp focus once again the vulnerabilities of the poor in general as well as of the elderly, women, the transgenders, and the disabled. Given Kerala’s growing elderly phenomenon, the three million migrant labourers will have to be made a dignified part of its social life. Will Kerala see rebuilding as an opportunity to put an end to the social exclusion through structural reforms and action?', 'A road policy that aims to reduce accidents should be another priority of the rebuilding project. In 2018, nearly 4,800 people died in road accidents. The State needs a Road Reconstruction Policy that will reduce such accidents. If Kerala is to consciously be rebuilt as a thing of beauty, half the battle will be won.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Conversations benefit journalism
['Engage or disengage?', 'Journalists felt that this column, which is designed to be a dialogue between the newspaper and its readers, should strive to inform readers about the challenges faced by them in a polarising environment. I would like to summarise their angst in five points. One, we have a government that has a peculiar Teflon coat — none of its monumental failures stick on it. Two, facts are compared with rhetoric and hyperbole. Three, misogyny has grown and become toxic. Four, the threat to individual journalists’ safety has become real, and attacks against journalists are taking place with impunity. Five, social media is used to discredit journalism and journalists. In this environment, what should be the relationship between journalists and the social media?', 'The points raised are real and disturbing. But disengaging is not the answer. As someone who handles complaints for this newspaper, I can vouch for the fact that the majority of the readers are without rancour. They are inquisitive and desire a fruitful engagement with the newspaper. They may not be as garrulous as the trolls. But they are able to distinguish between journalism and propaganda. They are appalled when reporters are attacked for raising pertinent questions and holding those who wield power accountable. They respect investigative journalism and they value truth. Hence, engaging with them is an inevitable task.', 'The key question is how to distinguish between a truly inquisitive reader and a propagandist who wants to undermine journalism and the public discourse. I believe that journalists who have developed excellent editorial judgment find the difference in the very first sentence of the communication.', 'Discerning readers, who form the bulwark of those who support journalism, ask journalists questions to scrutinise those in power. They do not pose questions to obfuscate truth or to defend the regime. These readers are able to see that journalism’s first obligation is to tell the truth and its first loyalty is to citizens. They do not want propaganda articles or uncritical appeasement pieces. Citizens look for credible information to make an informed choice.', 'Journalists must realise that informed readers do not confuse objectivity with naïve neutrality. One cannot be neutral when a young girl is stalked and killed, or when marginalised people are further exploited, or when there is an open display of dominance-dependency in an equation. As Bill Kovach and Tom Rosenstiel rightly pointed out, journalistic responsibility is “to provide citizens with the tools they need to extract knowledge for themselves from the undifferentiated flood or rumour, propaganda, gossip, fact, assertion, and allegation the communications system now produces.” Hence, it is vital to continue the dialogue between journalists and readers, and not be short-circuited by the viciousness of the trolls.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Blatantly banal
['Ek Ladki...', 'Further, Bollywood love stories cannot be realised without strife. Thus, there is the unfeeling elder brother and a prototypical villain from whom his beloved sister must be rescued. What’s new then? Only that homosexual love replaces heterosexual love? Same-sex love is thus reduced to a convenient plot point to enable the director to deliver a social message.', 'Besides, the women in love need a heterosexual man (Rajkummar Rao) as the knight in shining armour to bring them together and of course the dutiful patriarch of the family (Anil Kapoor) must approve the match. They have no agency, which is a seriously problematic position. Sweety and Kuhu’s first meeting and eventual falling in love are the most unimaginative I have seen in recent Hindi cinema. For the lack of a better description, it is a poorly etched fairytale far removed from real life experiences. When will Bollywood stop the ‘othering’ of the same-sex love story? I wonder if this discourse helps the cause or is more of a disservice.', 'Ek Ladki...', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Pre-poll gambit: on reduction of GST on under-construction properties
['On Sunday, the Goods and Services Tax Council recommended a dramatic reduction in the headline indirect tax rates payable on under-construction properties. The GST rate payable on affordable homes, with effect from April 2019, will come down from 8% to 1%, and all other residential properties outside the affordable segment will attract 5% GST instead of the 12% levied at present. The new rate on affordable homes, defined as units that cost less than ₹45 lakh and have a carpet area of 60 square metres in metro cities and 90 square metres in non-metros, is far lower than the 3% rate mooted by a ministerial panel. The Council needs to meet again in March to clear the transition rules for the proposed rate cuts, and the conditions to be stipulated for housing projects to be eligible for the new rates. Days ahead of the expected announcement of the Lok Sabha poll dates by the Election Commission, the government is clearly keen on reaching out to different sections of voters. It has argued that the move will help meet the aspirations of millions of home-buyers, and revive the fortunes of real estate developers. Among the country’s largest employers in recent years, the realty sector has been marred by the debt overdose that has plagued much of corporate India; this has been compounded by high unsold inventory that hit cash flows. Properties that were already complete at the time of the GST’s adoption were spared the tax. But the introduction of 12% and 8% GST for under-construction premier housing units and affordable homes, respectively, had come as a dampener for fresh bookings.', 'Finance Minister Arun Jaitley reckons that revenues will not be hit by the rate cut. The implicit assumption is that higher sales volumes will compensate the exchequer. Experts expect a 4-5% reduction in home prices, but the decision to deny input tax credits to builders could bring a twist in the tale. Developers may be forced to raise base prices as critical inputs, particularly cement (taxed at 28%), entail high levies that can no longer be offset. Buyers may still prefer to opt for unsold completed properties that don’t attract GST, instead of incomplete projects. Compliance as well as material costs could go up too, as the Council is likely to mandate that around 80% of a project’s inputs must come from formal sector vendors in the GST net. It is difficult to determine to what extent a proposed tax exemption on development rights will offset these costs for developers. Whatever the outcome of this pre-election ploy, the frequent structural tinkering ahead of electoral battles has emerged as the biggest challenge to the stabilisation of India’s fledgling GST regime.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Before eviction: on SC verdict on forest-dwellers
['The Supreme Court’s order to evict, over the next five months, occupants of forest lands who failed to make a successful claim for tenure under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, has once again highlighted the dilemma of reconciling inalienable tribal rights with biodiversity conservation. When the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act was passed, it was with the wholly welfarist goal of making these communities partners in conservation. They would be stewards of forests that have shrunk and become fragmented over the decades. It was another landmark, therefore, when the Forest Rights Act protected possession and conferred heritability of land to over 23 lakh out of 44 lakh claimants who are either specified Scheduled Tribes, or people who have lived in forests traditionally, relying on forest produce for at least 75 years prior to the cut-off year of 2005. But over 20 lakh other applicants who could not establish their claim through gram sabhas and appellate authorities have now been ordered to be evicted by July 12. The 17 State governments which have been asked to carry out the evictions must respond by quickly determining whether there were procedural lapses that deprived applicants of due process, notably in making appeals. This process may take time, more so in an election year, and the sheer scale of action required would necessitate an extension of the eviction date.', 'In the ideal scheme, as the Forest Rights Act envisages, forested areas and their biodiversity will be protected by communities, with individuals taking forest produce only for sustenance and livelihood. Such an approach is at odds with the colonial paradigm of forests being treated as a resource run by an opaque bureaucracy that replaced precious old-growth trees with monocultures such as teak. Today, forests have shrunk to about 5% of the land in terms of protected areas, while human pressures are growing: landscapes are alienated for resource exploitation, road and dam building, and a lot of wildlife is lost to poaching. Man-animal conflict is growing. Claims for tenure under the Forest Rights Act must therefore satisfy the primary test of whether they are legally unimpeachable, and even if they are, whether they would impose additional pressures on forests and wildlife. The answer in many areas may lie in resettlement. In some well-documented cases, such as in the Western Ghats, alternative land and cash compensation convinced tribals to move out of core areas. One example is that of the Nagarahole National Park, where the outcome has been good for both people and wildlife, as evidenced by the recovery of tiger density over three decades. State governments need to pursue such programmes in a humane and vigorous fashion. They must also come forward to declare critical wildlife habitats under the Act. This will aid in formulating resettlement schemes for tribal residents.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A race to nowhere
['There is a thought. It keeps coming back to me at regular intervals, and I am sure many individuals share with me different versions of the same thought. The thought is likely the distinguishing feature of our generation. One where we feel lost trying to find our place in a world that teaches us the importance of chasing our individuality, and in the same breath asks us to quit our passion for conventionality. A world that values uniqueness but enforces homogenisation at every step.', 'As children, we were free of inhibitions, and were yet to be enslaved by the conditioning of modern-day society. We wanted to achieve great things. Some of us wanted to be astronauts who go on to colonise outer space, others wanted to be scientists making inventions by the minute. I wanted to be an environmentalist for a while and a pilot for the rest of the time. Today, I am a student at a management institute. The worst part is that I never even tried to become a pilot, hell, I didn’t even research on how someone becomes a pilot.', 'Don’t get me wrong. I’m not someone who resents my profession. My career has taken me places, provided me with what some may call intellectually stimulating work, and led me to interact with many brilliant individuals. But the more I interacted with these individuals, the more I realised that our system was increasingly creating insecurity amongst a majority of our generation. The answer to the why here was depressingly clear. We have taken our dreams, and hopes and ambitions, churned them into a factory, where we are repeatedly told to compete in a race to our society’s definition of a ‘settled and successful’ life. Before we can even begin to understand what the race is all about, the shots have been fired, and the clock has begun to tick, tick-tock, tick-tock.', 'So, what do we do? We run. We run without understanding outcomes, but we run to win. As more people join in, the competition gets tougher, so we run even faster. As the finishing point draws closer, pressure builds up and we start to break under it.', 'We become self-conscious and start doubting ourselves. And in this moment, when we seek someone, to support us, to help us shine again, we are faced with reality. We realise how everyone around us is chasing that same superficial label, without understanding its significance, breaking under it just as we are. How can we then create an atmosphere where we help each other find a spot, when we have been conditioned to believe there is place for only one?', 'How can we feel happy surviving a world, all alone — a world that doesn’t even let us control our own narrative?', 'Here’s the thing with minds. They often wander, and mine keeps wandering around the transience of such labels that we chase — professional success, academic excellence, social media fame or a strong bank balance. Everyone seems to have their own validation poison. I fail to understand how we have warped our value system to the point, that we prioritise these things over what actually brings us joy.', 'As I grow older, I have realised what we really cherish in life is not these labels, but moments of affection and love, shared with people we can call home. I have begun to understand that there is no such thing as a game-changing achievement. The real game-changers are the ordinary moments in life — the hot chocolate in winter, books read cuddled inside a blanket, drives on a rainy day, warmth of a mother’s hug as she says goodbye at the airport, excitement on seeing a friend a decade later, unexpected kindness from a stranger, and so on. These moments are everywhere, in the smiles we don’t return and the conversations we don’t make, in the flower shops we ignore and the dessert we don’t order, in the phone calls we postpone and the plans we break.', 'Most of us seem to think that once we have won this race that we are running, we will turn to these more important things in life. The problem, however, is that the race will never be over, and that the winning ribbon is an illusion we will keep chasing until the end of time. Life has to be enjoyed while living it. If we look for simpler times, we will look forever, because our labels will get bigger and the races we run to achieve them tougher.', 'So, next time you find yourself in a situation where you feel helpless going after something you don’t really want, making a choice you’ll resent, one that will make you feel slightly hollow on the inside, I hope you stop and rethink. I know I will.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Aligning with the young
['I was wondering the other day what is that one thing that human souls really crave for. After a little bit of soul-searching, and I get closer to answering this question. We all desire acceptance, whether we admit it or not. A little child looks at his or her parent’s face for approval, when she or he does something right or wrong. I have experienced this with my five-year-old daughter.', 'Work on self-acceptance: If we accept ourselves, it is easy to accept others. When I am happy and content myself, then I am able to accept my daughter more whole-heartedly. I am less critical of her actions and ‘inadequacies’. It ultimately has a ripple effect on all my relationships.', 'Unconditional love: The next important aspect is providing unconditional love.', 'Let go of the notion of a perfect child: It is easy to fall into the trap of expecting our children to be high-achievers or ‘ideal’. But that’s not all! We are all unique individuals, uniqueness makes the world beautiful. We need to see that ‘special’ in our child. My daughter mostly colours outside the lines. But her colour strokes are beautiful. More so, her love for colouring amuses me.', 'Find time to understand our children: I was talking to a friend one day and she asked me something that struck me: “If we don’t understand our children, then who will?” Take out time to discover your child’s personality and find out more about that type. Once we understand our child’s basic nature, we can alter our style to meet their requirements. By observing my daughter, I understood that she loves free-expression in her colouring, and she doesn’t like being guided by boundaries. The more we understand them, the more accepting we become. We don’t burden the children with our expectations.', 'Connect with our children: We need to connect with our children in order to fully embrace them — listen to them, engage with them. When we connect with our children, we become more aware of who our children are. We become more attuned to their interests, learning style and personalities. Go ahead, bond with them, share your experiences with them, read books with them, share your childhood stories, take long walks with them, tell them silly jokes, and sing funny songs with them.', 'We have all heard these things before, haven’t we? It is important to revisit these aspects in order to truly appreciate our children and realign our parenting goals in this competition-driven environment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Where gender prejudices reign
["I was at a paediatrician's private clinic, screening preterm babies (born before 37 weeks of pregnancy) for a pathology specifically seen in the retina of these babies and called retinopathy of prematurity (RoP). Now this paediatrician runs, along with his colleagues, one of the best private neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) in my city of Jamnagar. While documenting the patient details, I was surprised to find that 18 of the 21 babies I had screened over my three visits there were male. So I casually remarked to my paediatrician friend, “Lots of male babies, eh?” “The females are in GG, Ruchirbhai”, he replied matter-of-factly, ‘GG’ here being Guru Gobindsingh Hospital, the government hospital in Jamnagar.", 'Now GGH, Jamnagar has a well-run paediatrics department with a team of capable doctors running their neonatal care unit. But it has its limitations as in the case of most of the government hospitals in India. The staff are overworked and the infrastructure is lacking. A professionally run private hospital aims to give quality care to its patients, and one important way of doing this is not to let the resources get unduly stretched. The cost of care in private practice is high, and from there arises the gender bias.', 'So, did my paediatrician friend’s reply shock me? No. Did it surprise me? No. As a doctor I see this gender prejudice every single day. But you know, there are certain things that are so despicable that every time it happens you discard it as a one-off event and hope you never see or hear of it again. Gender bias is one such thing for me. Now I am not proclaiming myself to be a feminist or anything but I just find it err… despicable. But whenever this happens it gets me thinking, why the hell do people do this? And it is not just the males who force this bias on the family, the females are complicit, either by acts of commission or omission.', 'The joint family culture is quite prevalent in India, especially in Hindu households — multiple generations of the same family living together under one roof. It is a brilliant system with many positives. I lived and still live in a joint family. Great grand-parents living with their sons’ families who are in turn living with their sons’ families. Such a happy system. But here lies the problem. Parents are living with their sons and not their daughters, although there might be a few exceptions. All of them have wed someone else’s daughters and brought them into their homes.', 'India is a low-to-moderate income country, and quality healthcare is not cheap. Although quality healthcare in India is among the cheapest in the world, the ‘not cheap’ bit is for the Indian poor. Also, government-provided healthcare is shoddy at best.', 'Now, spending on healthcare is an unplanned and unwanted expenditure for the people, and Indians are extremely reluctant in this regard. So the parents’ attitude towards the health of their children is abject. Another pediatrician friend told me that parents at his clinic deny treatment for their ailing newborns saying they could always produce another one. For them it is an investment they cannot afford to make. Producing another child is lot cheaper.', 'Now if the child is a daughter, it gets worse. The first thing they think is that spending all this money on a child who would grow up and marry into another family is a dead investment. As they do not see any ‘returns’ from this investment made on a girl-child. After all, it is their sons who are going to support them in their old age, and their daughters will be looking after someone else’s parents. So they do the bare minimum for the girl-child and hope for the best. The sad part is that this bias is not limited to the poor of society. I have an aunt who was happy her daughter-in-law had a son as her first-born as the birth of a daughter would have left the family incomplete and would have made further endeavours in reproduction necessary.', 'Need proof? A detailed analysis of Census 2011 data showed that 27% of the households in Uttar Pradesh had two or more married couples living together. Uttar Pradesh was followed by Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh in this. In Rajasthan, 25% of the households were found to be joint families, while in Haryana the corresponding figure was 24.6%, Punjab 23.9%, Gujarat 22.9%, Bihar and Jharkhand 20.9% and Himachal Pradesh 20%. In West Bengal, 15.5% of the households were joint families, in Maharashtra it was 17.6%, in Madhya Pradesh 17.7%, in Odisha 12.32% and in Goa 12.6%. In contrast, in south India, in Andhra Pradesh only 10.7% of the households were joint families, in Tamil Nadu it was 11.2%, in Pondicherry 11.4%, in Karnataka 16.2% and in Kerala 16.6%.', 'Incidentally, Census 2011 showed that the States of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra have among the worst child sex ratio figures in the country. In contrast, the southern States of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka and Kerala have a far better child sex ratio. Odisha and West Bengal have a better child sex ratio compared to the western and northern States. Sample that.', 'Of course, literacy and income levels do play a role as seen in Kerala. Kerala has a higher number of joint families than the rest of the southern States but it still has one of the best child sex ratio figures in the country.', 'All in all, the joint family system is a dominant cause of a poor child sex ratio, higher rates of female foeticide, female infanticide and female illiteracy.', 'So, do I blame the parents for all this gender bias? I am not quite sure I do, not completely… Do I think this gender bias is wrong? Hell, yes… Do I think the joint family culture is responsible for this gender-bias? Of course. Do I think we should do away with the joint family culture? Umm...', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Beyond bread and butter
['My father always said dogs can perceive omens. It was incredible as a child for me to believe this, whenever I would offer a dog a biscuit or a chapati, and it would devour it greedily and would later rub itself against my leg and lick my feet. It was unusual to imagine that abilities of such mythic proportions would be at the disposal of an order of creatures we consider incapable of freedom from instincts. As it turns out, their instincts would often lead them to bark at certain shifty individuals. They would certainly bark at the other people in my chawl, especially outsiders — save Chacha.', 'Chacha has been delivering pao bread, butter, eggs, lozenges and other confectionery items in our chawl for as long as I remember. I remember seeing him standing at the threshold, holding his old white cement sack, that still somehow faintly bore the name of the company, while my father would answer him and take our usual share of one packet of pao and four eggs for one day. I remember seeing him with his thick black beard as a child and remembering the tale of the Kabuliwala, except that Chacha was a frail looking man all along but had a certain vitality and energy to him that my puny comprehension could never locate. He cycled to our chawl each day. When it rained, which was almost as certain as Chacha’s punctuality, we could see him in his yellow tarpaulin raincoat with the goods covered with a white plastic sheet. Even the rainbow-coloured fan that whirled around did not move then as the contradictory winds and the downpour just made it confused and cease all motion.', 'I remember his son as a likeable kid, but I only ever saw him as a young urchin with the same brilliance in his eyes as Chacha, confident, and probably ambitious, often carrying a toy aeroplane with him. He was well-mannered too, for when my father gifted him some money or some of my old clothes at Diwali or Holi, he would thank him and touch his feet — an honorable gesture.', 'Perennially, when I took the parcel of eggs from him, the wrapping paper bore an article from the pen of Dada Rao. I am almost certain that Chacha was older than Dada Rao. Dada Rao has been a timeless icon of our people’s strength and resilience against foreigners and aliens. My childhood was replete with patrikas and pamphlets of Dada Rao, commanding his followers to rally with him in his battles against injustice and exterior attempts at subordination. Dada Rao was a superhero to me in my youth. There were comics of his exploits, where he would frequently cross the border to teach our wicked neighbours a lesson, and often he would beat and parade butchers and sweepers because they had slaughtered or consumed cow. Often these characters resembled Chacha in their appearance.', 'My father once told me at breakfast that Chacha and his “ilk” were living here on our land. “His kind will be severely punished by Dada Rao. You just wait and see when he comes into power,” he muttered while he took a bite of a toasted pao. Mother was cooking eggs and the smell filled our small two-room apartment.', 'His speech had a marked acquaintance to my judgment. I believe I had seen it on TV in one of Dada Rao’s election rallies. I remember millions there, jumping up at his every word, clapping, shouting, jeering when he admonished the current government for the sorrowful conditions in which our community lives. I remember seeing women, old and young, clutching at their little babies or holding the hands of their children, crying and howling when Dada Rao declared that he will protect them against the lustful foreigners. These words and images were engraved on my impressionable mind, almost as if the very hammer and nail that were the insignia for Dada Rao’s party were the weapons that were used to do so.', 'Time was a visitor as always, and Dada Rao’s party won with a remarkable majority. He nominated a respectable and rather agreeable looking fellow from his party as the Chief Minister. I can distinctly reminisce of those days. A band had paraded throughout the city with dhols and cymbals, drums and blaring speakers, announcing to every living soul and each of the dead that Dada Rao, their pious and just leader, was here finally — a second coming of a mythical deity as it were — to deliver his people from the clutches of slavery and ignominy.', 'A local convoy of supporters had reached our chawl that day. I remember them on their loud Yamaha bikes with thumping engines, saffron bands on their heads, smearing saffron gulal on each other’s faces. The elders remained planted on the balconies and windows, smiling and cheering them on. The women clapped and beat their utensils. The dogs barked. All of my friends went out to join them in their celebration, and I did so too.', 'We danced, we laughed and we shouted slogans. It was an initiation, an acceptance into a world I had admired from afar, and now I was submerged in it. The saffron consumed me, assimilating my existence into it, giving me an identity, an association, and in return, I gave it myself. I was not one now but many. We were together in our joy and in our quest for independence. I was saffron. The sheer bliss I felt made me forget that I was hungry. I could not have breakfast that day since Chacha had not come.', 'We had to manage our supplies for the next couple of weeks, after which Chacha resumed his services. He was still his same sombre but lively self, but I often thought I noticed a dissimilarity between the Chacha of old and the one who came to our house now. I thought I saw a shame in his eyes, the dissident vitality of old replaced by a meek submissiveness. Often when he did not have change, he would say he will settle it the next day. However, now he would run around the building and bring the change back to us. There were other curious changes too. When I would answer the door having just prayed bearing a tika on my forehead, he would not look up. He would silently nod, hand me the paos and eggs and walk away, stuffing the money hastily and often carelessly into the pockets of his kurta, invariably spilling coins in the corridor and earning a curse or two from the residents.', 'Soon Chacha stopped coming altogether and was replaced by his son, as he would have intended.', 'His son had grown into a confident young man. He was sprightly, and the bounce in his step helped me envision a younger, chattier Chacha on the same bicycle — one that was unafraid just like his son. His garrulous charm had resisted the onslaught of adolescence and won over the people of the chawl, which he frequented in the evening when he played cricket with us. He was liked by the dogs too, and often let out a packet of biscuits and paos for them. He had told me his mother had passed away so Chacha looked after the shop. This was easier for his aging eyes too, while he was in charge of delivery and pickups. He had to give up his education because of it, but he said that he planned to continue it in a few years. The aeroplane was still on his mind.', 'And so the needles of the clock went on until they were halted by another thud on my remembrance.', 'It was a pleasant morning, the rising sun spilled the first of its already decaying orange light through the window in its absurd routine, while mother served me tea. December had set in and following a healthy monsoon, it was getting a little chilly. The mosque had fallen a few days ago, and riots had broken out all over the city. Our locality was largely untouched and the paos and eggs were coming regularly.', 'Mother was preparing father’s lunch while he bathed. The smell of frying onions and their sibilance was interrupted by a ruckus outside. I heard distant drumming and frightening roars, a loudness matched only by the deafening detonation of bombs from old war documentaries. I was shaken out of my comfortable reverie and jumped to a window.', 'I could see no one and dismissed it all as another one of the zealous celebrations of my fellows of their victory over history. The dogs barked ceaselessly as they always did when they drummed maniacally, but a shoo or a stick made the stupid beasts scamper away yelping in terror.', 'I sat down to sip my tea when I heard a woman’s shriek, shrill almost like a girl’s, shriller than the clang of swords on shields, piercing my ears like a pacing javelin, hurting. I ran up to the window again and saw the horde of celebrators had reached the compound of the chawl. They were gathered round in a circle and shouting slogans while a few women stood a comfortable twenty or thirty yards away with an incriminating, almost baneful look on their face, holding a girl, sobbing and screaming. It was her voice that had made me jump up. She beat her head and her chest, her hair had been undone, the kohl from her eyes bled into her face, besmirching it with the harrowing semblance of an inevitability, a fear-driven humiliation that had sauntered on to her face which I had never seen before. She was the daughter of a resident.', 'All this while the men’s faces ranged from apoplectic paralysis to haughty jeering and chuckling. They brandished wooden sticks, almost as thick as the boughs of the asoka. They shouted slogans of “justice” and “revenge”. Excited at this raucous commotion, I went down, leaving the tea to cool with the rising sun.', 'By the time I got into the compound, the crowd had started moving. The girl let out another wail that left me shaken in my steps, but I walked on.', 'I could see rags which were oddly familiar, red stains and some saffron gulal where the horde had stood. I ran up to join them, unmindful of the fact that I was now accompanying them in raising the same slogans. There were some of my friends at the back of the crowd, still too young for a voter identity card, but they goaded me on relentlessly. I followed the crowd to the exit gate of the chawl, where I was followed by the barking dogs, which looked on helplessly, mewling and shaking.', 'I looked on, bemused and perplexed when it dawned on me. I stood there frozen, afraid, and disgusted. My mind was an infinitely contorted maze of ideas, and memories. I was too late.', 'Cries of hapless anguish filled the silent winter air. The smoke rose into the heavens, not at all what his God had wanted. I had never known the smell of burning flesh, and now I wish that I could forget it. The crowd cheered on while he danced with fiery death and rolled on the wet road that gave him no aid. He rolled and rolled and rolled but to no avail. It went on for some time. I looked at it the whole time.', 'He lay there, wriggling like a worm. It was soon over; petrol burns fast. His cries were gone. The smoke was gone. The winter morning consumed them, hid them from discovery, but failed in front of the charred mass.', 'The crowd scattered, spitting and clapping, raising the same slogans they had raised all morning. The girl still cried. I returned to my home. Mother asked no questions, packed my father’s lunch who went out to the shop.', 'The paos and eggs stopped coming. We welcomed the new year, and the riots continued for some more time.', 'I have to go out in the evenings now to get the paos and eggs, and often I amble past Chacha’s shop but it remains shut. There are weeds growing around it, where people used to sit at tea and discuss politics, and cricket and Dada Rao while Chacha or his wife served them toasted paos and omelettes. It is funny how quickly weeds grow and occupy a place.', 'Since that day, I have had a troubled relationship with sleep. I lie down and my eyes do not shut all night. Even when they do, I hear screams. Ceaseless pouring out of lungs and voice for as long as one may be struck dumb, but they continue.', 'Today, I was lying awake in my bed when the doorbell rang. I got up, slipped my feet into my shoes and walked to the door. I opened it to find an emaciated figure, oddly recognisable, bearded white with watery bronze eyes and a hollow mouth. I looked at him for what I perceived lasted an hour, while the chime of the doorbell and the devotional songs that rang with it reverberated in my head. My reverie was broken again.', 'He turned around, without as much as a twitch in his eyelid, and walked away. I walked into the corridor to chase after him, to talk to him, maybe shed sympathy but he walked on with his white sack, blending into the darkness of the corridor where the rising sun still did not shine.', 'If I could, I would ask Dada Rao if it was worth it. Since the day he walked off into the corridor, I have stopped hearing screams. Even when I am able to catch a few hours’ sleep, I am haunted by a singular dream — the bicycle that lay by the blackened heap of sizzling humanity, the rainbow smeared with ash.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Sapper caste, Sir!', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Sapper caste, Sir!']


Sapper caste, Sir!
['Sapper caste, Sir!', 'Sapper caste, Sir!', 'During the Second World War, Madras Sapper units were deployed in Burma, West Asia, North Africa and Europe, in fact wherever there was actual fighting on the ground. There is a touching anecdote of a man named Chatu who had enrolled as a sweeper in a unit which was moved for battle to the deserts of North Africa.', 'During the campaign, some soldiers were caught in a minefield in the desert, without water or food. It was the non-combatant Chatu who volunteered to carry sustenance for them, risking his life against enemy fire and mines. His act was akin to that of the character Gunga Din in Kipling’s eponymous poem, who carried and fed water to wounded soldiers under fire, prompting a British soldier to say, “You’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din”.', 'After this act of selfless courage, Chatu was held in the highest esteem, respected by soldiers and indeed all ranks of the unit. He enjoyed unusual freedom in the unit, and participated in all unit activities, notwithstanding his “low caste”. During British times, there was no official recognition of acts of courage by Indian non-combatants, else Chatu would have certainly been awarded for gallantry worthy of a soldier.', 'It is interesting to note that post-Independence, during India’s first war against Pakistan in 1948, Madras Sapper non-combatant Dhobi Ramchander was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, India’s second highest gallantry award after the Param Vir Chakra. This was for saving the life of an officer wounded in an ambush, using a rifle to keep the enemy at bay and helping him to a distant medical aid post.', 'Chatu was, however, honoured in a unique way after the War. During a ceremonial barakhana, the Officer Commanding, Major Cameron, led Chatu to the table and had him served food first. This became a custom in the unit at every barakhana thereafter, and continued until Chatu left the unit on retirement in the 1960s.', 'The author was commissioned into the Madras Sappers in 1962. In 1993, he was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM). He retired in 1996 in the rank of Major General.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A home shared with pigeons and crows
['Finally, I decided to move into my own flat that I had bought and rented out six years ago. Recently my tenants, a lovely young couple, expressed their wish to shift into their own house. So I decided to use the opportunity to experience living in my own flat.', 'I moved in two weeks ago. Friends and family joined the prayers. Everyone congratulated me on my house and told me how beautiful it was.', 'It took a couple of days for their compliments to sink in. They were right, I realised. This was the first time l was living in a house where l didn’t have to switch on the lights during day-time. It was a bright house with lots of sunlight and breeze. I began to savour the experience.', 'Perfection is not easy to bear. As in the story of the potter who made a Nataraja so perfect that he had to break a bit of its little finger lest it dance wildly and take the world into chaos. So with my house.', 'Suddenly I noticed lots of activity in my balcony with pigeons sitting on the parapet littering every possible empty space. I was horrified. Pigeon poo could be a source of infection and pollute the air. You can contract serious diseases.', 'The society where I had lived earlier didn’t have this menace. I learnt from my tenant that some pigeon-lovers had come to live in this complex and were daily feeding grain to the birds.', 'I declared war on them. A friend suggested I buy an owl bird-scarer on Amazon. I found one for ₹705 and another ₹373. Which was better? I read reviews. ‘Nothing works,’ they said. ‘After a while the pigeons realise the owl is stationary and come back to make a mark on its head as well’. Another site showed a blue and white owl with a moving stick. This, the reviewer said, was better.', 'I nearly placed an order when it struck me that I should also check some YouTube videos. And sure enough there was one in which an intelligent Indian housewife’s solution was to tie a black garbage bag in the balcony or window. As it flutters in the wind, the birds stay away.', 'So I have done that and let me tell you how well it has worked. At a cost of a mere one rupee, I have sent all the pigeons to the last building in the Society. I can see some one thousand of them perched atop one building and another 500 on an electric wire, looking towards my balcony but not quite venturing close. I was happy the experiment had succeeded.', 'My happiness lasted a week, till I found a crow sitting on the balcony wall and pecking at the garbage bag. This was too much! How audacious too!', 'So once again I went to YouTube to check if there was a crow-scarer. In the second video, an American lady harassed by crows in her garden had proposed keeping a CD with its bright side up tied to a pole, for the crow fears the sunlight reflecting off it.', 'I have done that now. A crow came yesterday to examine the CD, and a second one came today. Both stood timorously on the edge of the balcony wall – not centre stage – and kept observing it. Then they flew away.', 'I am keeping my fingers crossed. Will they leave my building forever or will they go tattle to the pigeons the truth about the “menacing creatures” I have hung on my balcony. Crows are very intelligent birds and hard to fool.', 'It would be a nightmare if the army of pigeons and crows returned to take revenge. What if they returned to sit, not on the pole or the other building, but on my balcony. splattering their… you know what. Will I have to shift flats?', 'I did think of being cautious and adopting a pseudonym for this piece, lest I have pigeons and crows cawing angrily from the balcony, and my pigeon-loving neighbours screaming at me from the front door.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Sapper caste, Sir!', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Backpacks with punch
['One of the travails of modern-day travel, is getting periodically buffeted by backpacks, hauled typically by a young person, both while boarding and alighting.', 'Time was when all luggage was carried by hand in the form of a suitcase, air-bag and such. At some point of time, the load got transferred to the back. It might have started in school, in the style popularised by the cartoon icon Dora, the seven-year-old Latin American girl with a backpack containing knick-knacks. Schoolchildren began to carry them, thereafter software techies. Barring the foreigners who come to ‘do’ India on a shoe-string budget, the backpack aficionados are mostly youngsters.', 'The other day, my over-booked Bengaluru flight was boarding. Several techies, with backpacks, moved up and down, turning sharply in search of their seats. One or two hit the back of my head, and moved away without even the mandatory lip service of an ‘excuse me’. Perhaps they felt it was my mistake to be in the aisle seat, positioning my head in the space where their backpacks swung. I moved my head to my left and right like a boxer avoiding a round house punch. Nevertheless, got hit twice. Soon the back-load was in an overhead bin.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Warmth, up close and personal
['Just when you are feeling all eyes on yourself and gloating over the pullover you are wearing for its unique design, you suddenly see another person wearing a similar one. It’s such a big let-down; in fact, downright embarrassing! How painstakingly you had searched for it, foraging through innumerable stores and finally settling for this. It was a ‘like’ at first sight. But then, what else can one expect in this assembly line, mass production age?', 'It was another time when all sweaters had their own distinct patterns. They were like our fingerprints, or those stripes on coats of zebras and tigers, each a unique set. Our mothers took pains to ensure that the design on the sweaters of her loved ones didn’t resemble any other on earth.', 'Women’s magazines devoted their winter editions to sweater designs. Market places acquired a colourful hue as shop after shop converted themselves temporarily to selling woollens. They made an ostentatious display of their stock, kept as wool-balls or hung in loops of yarn in innumerable tints. Sarojini Naidu’s description of colours, expressed in another context though, could have been so apt here: ‘Silver and blue as the mountain mist,/ … Some are like fields of sunlit corn / Some, like the flame of her marriage fire,/ Or, rich with the hue of her heart’s desire/… Some are purple and gold flecked grey/ For she who has journeyed through life midway…’.', 'Sweaters were not knitted, they were created. Magazines were consulted, designs mulled upon, and improvisations explored on old patterns. As the ladies gathered after their household chores for some chitter-chatter in the winter sun, their nimble fingers engaged with the knitting needles and the yarn. The woolen canvas grew and enchanting motifs surfaced out of nowhere on them. The magic, they said, lay in the requisite ‘gauge’ or phandaa, which was ensured with an surgeon’s precision. For those uninitiated in the art, ‘gauge’ is a measurement of the number of stitches and rows per inch of knitting.', 'As it acquired shape, the likely wearer was called time and again to ensure the correct measurement of the torso and the sleeves. Since these summons made clear as for whom the particular piece was being knitted, our moms used a deceptive trick when they were to surprise us with a gift. Instead of trying it on us, the sweater, as it got knitted, was tried on a similar bodied child! And wasn’t it a moment of pride when some lady stopped one to admire the pattern on one’s sweater and examine it to try to understand how the particular design was made!', 'Knitting has been a prominent feature in literature as well. Whether it be the lady characters in Jane Austen classics or the elderly lady sleuth Miss Marple in the crime thrillers of Agatha Christie, knitting was perhaps a kind of metaphor both for a woman’s struggles with daily life and also her creativity, of her innate ability to make something beautiful from nothing.', 'It seems, in retrospect, that our sweaters had an unending life. They underwent a reincarnation when they became too old to be worn any longer. Unlike the machine-made ones, these hand-knitted sweaters were unreeled then, and the yarn was used to knit newer ones.', 'The hand-knitted sweaters made you feel warm not merely because they were made of wool. They contained something far more valuable — the warmth of relations and affection. We are fortunate to have experienced this warmth.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ABC Centre to be opened on March 1
['Shelters for dogs getting ready at the ABC Centre at Poolakkadavu.', 'Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan will open the Animal Birth Control Centre of the Kozhikode Corporation on March 1. The centre, located at Poolakkadavu, has been in the making for over four years.', 'Corporation veterinary officer V.S. Sreeshma said that there were around 14,000 stray dogs within the city limits according to the corporation’s stray dog census in 2017, and that it might have doubled by now. “We target 500 sterilisations per month. Yet, we will be fully engaged for a few years to eliminate the possibility of stray dog multiplication in the city,” she added.', 'The centre has facilities to conduct surgeries for five dogs at a time, including pre-operative and post-operative wards with 19 kennels, a preparation room, doctors’ room, sterilisation room, pharmacy, lecture hall, incinerator, waste treatment plant, and a dog van. Four surgeons and an anaesthetist, besides dog catchers, were appointed at the hospital recently.', 'For now, the centre will conduct sterilisation of stray dogs. At the same time, pet dogs can avail medical care at the centre. The facility will cater for Kozhikode city alone for a few years, and the services will be extended to other local bodies later.', 'Dr. Sreeshma said a multispeciality veterinary hospital had also been proposed along with the ABC Centre. However, work on the ABC centre was expedited as it was an emergency situation. The hospital will take some more time to be completed, she added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Early intervention sought for congenital heart diseases
['Around 5,000 children are born in Kerala with congenital heart diseases in a year, and early diagnosis and surgery can prevent their condition from turning worse, a Kozhikode-based civil surgeon said here on Monday.', 'U.N. Ramesh, who is part of the organising team behind a health camp to detect congenital heart diseases among children to be held on March 3 here, pointed out that some of them were in a critical condition that required immediate surgery.', 'Atrial Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the two upper chambers of the heart, and Ventricular Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the lower chambers of the heart, were the most common problems found among children, he claimed.', 'Dr. Ramesh said genetic problems or lifestyle issues, such as diabetes, of parents could lead to such conditions among children.', 'Organisers of the camp claimed that around 2,50,000 children across the country were found to have heart-related problems a year, and that 95% of them were not getting proper treatment.', 'The Indian Academy of Paediatrics too has cited heart disease as a major cause for the death of children in Kerala. Though timely diagnosis and surgeries could improve their condition, most parents are not able to shore up money for the purpose. Several families are forced into debt trap because of the high cost of treatment, they added.', 'V. Damodaran, representative of Rotary International, one of the organisers, said that Gift of Life, their free heart surgery project, was launched in association with Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi, to help such children.', 'The diagnosis camp to be held at Government Model Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode, will cover children aged below 18 from Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Malappuram districts. When similar camps were held in Kochi in previous years, a majority of participants were found to be from Malabar, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Chaos in corporation council meeting
['The meeting of the Kozhikode Corporation council on Monday, the last before the Budget session, ended up in chaos with councillors of Opposition parties shouting at one another over two issues that had practically nothing to do with development.', 'The mayhem began after councillor K. Nirmala drew the council’s attention to the alleged lapse in the distribution of welfare pension in Panniyankara, her ward.', 'Leader of the Opposition P.M. Suresh Babu of the Congress conveyed his party’s objection to the council session on February 18 despite party leaders demanding its postponement.', 'The Youth Congress had called for a lighting hartal on that day following the murder of two of its workers in Kasaragod, allegedly by CPI(M) activists.', 'Though the council leaders of the Congress and the BJP had sought postponement of the session, it was held in accordance with the rule that one-third attendance was enough to conduct meetings in such situations.', 'On Monday, Mr. Suresh Babu pointed out that he had requested that the session be postponed on humanitarian grounds and the decisions of the session be cancelled. His statement that the Mayor may be considered as being supportive of the accused if he did not cancel the decisions irked the ruling front councillors who began an argument with the Opposition councillors which ended up in a UDF walkout.', 'Health officer R.S. Gopakumar said the issue was due to a corrupted server, and that tender proceedings for a back-up battery were on. He also pointed out practical problems in the system and disparity in fee levied at different offices. Mr. Gopakumar suggested that the system be unified with the main counter at the corporation head office and kiosks at the zonal offices. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran directed the Corporation Secretary to take the required steps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Deploying unskilled volunteers risky’
['Taking no chances: According to TRACK, an NGO, local volunteers who jump into action when disasters strike lack experience in dealing with real-life situations.', 'Most local volunteers who jump into action during disaster outbreaks in the State lack proper exposure and training to deal with real-life situations, functionaries of a Kozhikode-based non-governmental organisation have claimed.', 'He pointed out that such volunteers should be trained properly before being deputed to disaster-hit areas.', 'Mr. Kumar said TRACK was planning to train 250 volunteers to be deployed during natural disasters in the district.', 'As many as five camps will be held to train volunteers by May. The first camp was held at Poonoor. Others will be held at Vadakara, Vazhakkad, Thottilpalam, and on the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society campus.', 'Details of volunteers will be handed over to the district administration so that it can be part of relief work along with personnel of the District Disaster Management Authority. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao will hand over certificates to 83 volunteers trained by TRACK at an event to be held in Kozhikode on February 26, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Police zero in on suspects in attack on Congress office
['Four persons suspected of involvement in the attack on the office of the Indian National Congress at Ayanchery near Vadakara in the district on Sunday have been caught on surveillance cameras.', 'An investigation team from the Vadakara police station said the visuals would be examined soon to identify the four.', 'Police sources said two of the four-member gang, who allegedly set the building afire, had their faces covered. The other two will be identified soon, they added.', 'Meanwhile, Congress leaders in the area alleged that the attack was carried out by CPI(M) activists. They also claimed that protests by Congress workers subsequent to the Periya twin murder case had provoked a section of CPI (M) workers in the area.', 'On Sunday, a hartal was observed at Ayanchery protesting against the incident. Senior Congress leaders, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, had flayed the incident and demanded an investigation. They also accused CPI(M) workers of triggering political unrest in the area for unknown reasons.', 'The police said the attack on the office was the continuation of a clash between Congress and CPI(M)workers in the area. The building was allegedly set afire around 3 a.m. on Sunday.', 'Recently, Congress and CPI(M) workers had locked horns over the removal of campaign boards in Vadakara, they added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


MVD control room for radar cameras all set for opening
['The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will commission its second State-level control room for monitoring and initiating action on the basis of live feeds from radar surveillance cameras in the city on March 5.', 'Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will open the facility, which will be initially monitoring feeds from various speed detection and red light violation cameras installed by the MVD on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch.', 'On completion of the pending repair and installation of additional surveillance cameras, the control room will also be able to handle live feeds from north Kerala districts. The new control room at Chevayur will be converted into a district-level unit.', 'Deputy Transport Commissioner K.M. Shaji said the control room would have facilities to constantly monitor as many as 37 cameras on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch. Technicians from Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (KELTRON) will be in charge of monitoring camera feeds and issuing notices on behalf of the MVD, he added.', 'An automated heavy vehicle fitness testing centre is ready for opening at Chevayur, which will help the department speed up testing procedures. The unit is equipped with facilities to conduct up to seven tests in various phases on a vehicle. The highlight is that fitness certificates can be issued on the spot. The new mechanism will also put an end to the conventional practice of test-driving vehicles and manually inspecting engine parts.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Corruption blamed for healthcare sector woes
['At a seminar on ‘Corruption in healthcare’ organised by the Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, Dr. Nundy said the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; Christian Medical College and Hospital, Vellore, and K.G. Medical College, Lucknow, accounted for 25% of all the research publications produced in the country during the period.', 'Dr. Nundy said the mortality of individual diseases was worse in India than it was in Bangladesh and Nepal, pointing out that 20% of health costs in the country was due to corruption. “There is corruption in [health] education too, where people have to pay ₹ 50 lakh to ₹ 1 crore to become graduates.', 'According to a newspaper report, for a postgraduate medical seat in radiology, you may have to pay up to ₹6 crore. It is very unlikely that those students would follow ethics in medical practice. Unless you get patients how are you going to survive?” he said.', 'K.P. Aravindan, a former professor at the medical college as well as a functionary of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad, stressed the need for political action to root out corruption in healthcare. Pointing out that European countries with better health indicators spend around 6-8% of their Gross National Product on healthcare, he said that the allocation on healthcare should be raised in India from the current 1.2% of the GNP.', 'A manifesto for ethical healthcare was released at the event.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The long road to the voting booth
['Women voters may hold the key to the 2019 Lok Sabha election outcome, reckon some psephologists. A 100 years ago, however, a slow and tenuous battle was under way to secure women’s voting rights. As this report in The Hindu on February 26, 1919, indicates, the arguments against allowing adult women voting rights a century ago were similar — whether they were made in the House of Commons or the Bombay Corporation. “The practice of ‘purdah’ for women in some communities makes it inconvenient, women leaving ‘legitimate’ activities would be disastrous for society, and, who will rock the cradle if women join the corporation...” That India was one of the first few countries in the world to embrace universal suffrage, ahead of many developed countries, speaks volumes of the tenacity and determination of its women. The Bombay and Madras provinces were the first to grant Indian women a limited franchise in 1921 (seven provinces followed suit over the next decade).Today, Mumbai is considered one of the safest and most empowering cities for women in the country.', 'Bombay Corporation.', 'Women Franchise.', 'In the course of the discussion on the subject of women franchise, which the Bombay Corporation voted against, Mr. Jehangir Petit speaking on the propositions admitted the intellectual fitness of women but thought that the time for such a step had not arrived and it would be disastrous to the society and humanity if women left their legitimate sphere of activity and entered harder walks of life.', 'Mr. J.A. Wadya was in entire sympathy with the proposition. He refuted the argument advanced by Dr. Sukhia that ladies of certain communities observed purdah and therefore they, as a class, should be debarred, and said those who wanted to take their share in civic life should not be debarred from doing so. Continuing he said that the other Parsi Corporator, Mr. Dhondy had asked that if Mrs. Dhondy became a member of the Corporation, was he to remain at home and rock the cradle?', 'Mr. Wadia said if Mrs. Dhondy were better qualified to be a Corporator then the proper course for her was to come there and sit in the Corporation and for Mr. Dhondy to stay at home and rock the cradle. He thought the opposition to the proposal was merely the result of prejudice of men against women. If ladies did come to the Corporation there would be more dignity and sober criticism than at present.', 'Mr. J.P. Orr thought there were many English women in Bombay willing to serve on the Corporation. Votes were then taken, which resulted in the propositions as also the amendments on them being lost.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


BMC looks at VLTs to boost revenue
['The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now come out with a policy to make up for the loss of revenue it got through octroi.', 'Owners of certain plots, who decades ago got land across the city on a tenancy basis for a nominal rent, will now have to shell out 62.5% of ready reckoner rate.', 'The erstwhile Bombay Improvement Trust, and later BMC, owned hundreds of acres of land across the city which was given on temporary lease to private entities as part of its Vacant Land Tenancy (VLT) policy. The objective was to protect these plots from encroachment. The tenants would pay nominal rent as no construction was allowed on such plots and BMC could ask them to vacate it at 15 days’ notice. However, these plots either came to be encroached upon over the decades or BMC shifted its project affected people here due to lack of a policy. Even though the VLT practice was discontinued after 1971, it went on at least until the 1990s.', 'Many of these VLT plots are on prime locations and can be used for public amenities. BMC now plans to offer these plots on lease to the occupants at 62.5% of ready-reckoner rate. If the terms are not acceptable the plots will be leased to a new tenant for 30 years.', 'The city has 3,472 such plots of which, 610 prime plots can be leased out under the policy, as others are either reserved in development plan for amenities or are plots measuring 125 sq meters or less, which are excluded from the policy. Of the 610 plots, 470 plots have residential structures, 35 have commercial structures, 22 house private companies, one has housing for bank employees, four have petrol pumps, while 21 have religious structures.', 'The policy will be tabled at BMC’s improvement committee meeting on Wednesday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


From expansion to transformation
['Addressing crucial issues: (From left) Lina Mathias, Sidharth Bhatia, R.A. Rajeev, Awanish Kumar.', 'As more people enter the city, is there inclusive space for all?', 'One of the main ways of turning Mumbai into an ‘equipolis’ was to extend public transport by expanding the Metro corridors, said R.A. Rajeev, Metropolitan Commissioner, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority.', 'Mr. Rajeev was among the speakers at a seminar, ‘Mumbai in Transition’, organised by Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA) and the Department of Public Policy, St. Xavier’s College. Civil servants, academics, activists and journalists discussed the nature of urban planning, civil society practices and challenges of bringing about social transformation in the city.', 'Mr. Rajeev highlighted the transport-oriented development planning of the city with the slew of Metro corridors that were in various stages of execution.', 'Prachi Merchant, Urban Planner at the All Indian Institute of Local Self Government and Lina Mathias, Executive Editor, Economic and Political Weekly, highlighted the range of issues faced by women in the city. “The nature of migration into the city has changed with the increasing number of single women migrants,” Ms. Mathias said. She also said it wasn’t just spaces for protest that had shrunk in the city; the spirit of protest had done so too.', 'Ms. Merchant explained the participatory planning process through the efforts of the Hamara Shehar Abhiyan Campaign, which demanded social amenities for women in the city’s Development Plan.', 'The seminar is part of YUVA’s ComplexCity, an annual festival to engage with city audiences on several urban issues and practices, which has been running since February 13.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Railways to lease 45 acres for Dharavi redevelopment
['Set to change: The 45-acre plot is spread across two land parcels, of which 28.56 acres comes under the Central Railway, and 16.44 acres under the Western Railway.', 'The Railways will lease out 45 acres of prime land to the State government for the Dharavi Redevelopment Project (DRP), and will receive a portion of the government’s profits and new quarters for their staff in return.', 'This was part of an agreement signed between the State government and the Union Ministry for Railways in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Railways will lease the land through the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA), an arm of the Indian Railways. RLDA will enter into an agreement with the Dharavi Redevelopment Authority to lease the land for 99 years.', 'S.V.R Srinivas, principal secretary, DRP, termed the agreement a win-win prospect for the State government and the Railways.', 'The Railways will get ₹1,000 crore up front for the land, out of which ₹200 crore will be disbursed in the next six months. They will also get a share of the net profit that the State government makes from the project.', 'Crucially, the Railways will get new quarters for their staff and encroachments on railway land will also be rehabilitated as part of the project, he said. The DRP will get large parcel of land for in-situ rehabilitation, which is one of the key hurdles of the project.', 'The 45-acre plot is spread across two land parcels, of which 28.56 acres comes under the Central Railway’s (CR) jurisdiction, while 16.44 acres comes under Western Railway (WR). There are several staff quarters, sports facilities, and administrative offices on the land parcels.', 'According to officials, around 5 acres would be sufficient to rehabilitate the Railway staff, opening up around 40 acres for the project. The land parcels lie between Dadar and Mahim on the WR and Dadar and Sion on the CR. Railway land between Mahim and Wadala stations on the Harbour line have also been included.', 'The Railway minister said the existing facilities on the land like railway quarters, which are 50 or 60 years old and in a dilapidated condition, will be improved under the redevelopment project and the encroachments nearby (3,000 slums) on Railway land will be allotted houses under the Slum Rehabilitation Policy scheme. The area will be developed with modern facilities through the DRP, he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


A coaching class for women lawyers
['Coaching classes for students are not limited to the fields of science, math and commerce. A group of women law students, interns and lawyers took an extra class on the subject, ‘Law of Precedents’ at the Bombay High Court on Friday. This was coaching with a difference: it was an interactive session, conducted by Justice B.R. Gavai of the Bombay High Court.', 'Justice B.H. Dangre, Justice Anuja Prabhudesai along with several leading and aspiring women lawyers were among the attendees.', 'The session was followed by a question-and-answer round which dealt with rules of precedent in tribunals and the Doctrine of Prospective Overruling (construing an earlier decision in such a way that it would not have a binding effect to the parties of the original suit or to the cases decided on the basis of that judgment, and yet changing the law, applying it only prospectively to the future cases).', 'Anita Shekhar Castellino, the organiser, said the Bombay Bar Association always had sessions only for its members while the current one was open to all women lawyers and interns.', 'She also said Justice B.R. Gavai could not be a better choice for the session: he had supported the cause of women’s empowerment in his courtroom during various proceedings.', 'Explaining the rationale for the session, she said, “Women do not get proper recognition. They are leaving this profession because of issues such as not being able to join post pregnancy etc. Such sessions give them a medium to interact with fellow lawyers and learn at the same time,” Ms. Castellino said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Now, watch horses do the show jump in Mumbai
['Giddy-up: A participant at a show jumping and dressage event at Mahalaxmi racecourse on Monday.', 'After 21 long years, Mumbaikars have an opportunity to witness the National Equestrian Championship for Show Jumping and Dressage, where horses once followed a pattern and jumped over several barrels with heights ranging from 1 to 1.10 m.', 'The horse show, which had led to Bengaluru and New Delhi becoming national-level centres for the sport, is back in Mumbai for a week-long stretch that concludes on Sunday.', 'On Monday, the National Equestrian Championship for Show Jumping and Dressage organised by Amateur Riders’ Club with the Equestrian Federation of India kicked off with 21 riders on Day One and 35 participants signing up for the whole week.', 'With every passing day, the levels of difficulty will only increase in terms of the barrel height being increased and newer horse manoeuvres. Participants on Monday included actor Randeep Hooda.', 'While show jumping is where a horse and his rider follows a pattern and jumps several barrels with heights ranging from 1 to 1.10 m, dressage is where the horse makes certain moves. While it is an Olympic-level competition, the aim, said ShyamMehta, president of the Amateur Riders’ Club, was to encourage the sport in the city and raise awareness around it.', 'The first round, called ‘novice’, was held with 21 participants, including Mr. Hooda. While round one was held in the morning, the second round was held in the evening at the Mahalaxmi Race Course.', 'While this year’s championship will see participants from across the country, there are also Asian Games star players Yashaan Zubin Khambatta and Kevic Setalvad showcasing their prowess. A group of army riders from Saharanpur and Meerut too will participate in the championship.', 'Mr. Mehta said interest in Mumbai as a venue is picking up again. “Usually, these matches would take place in Bengaluru, Meerut and New Delhi. There are many small riding clubs mushrooming in various parts of Maharashtra. However, proper facilities are important for this sport,” he said.', 'Yashank Khambatia, a participant, who has been into horse jumping since he was a child and has now made it a profession said, “Participating in international and national shows has boosted my morale. The fact that the show is back in Mumbai is a nice development. I can see jump shows grow from here on,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


TikTok helps woman reunite with family
['The woman saw a video by her sister and brother-in-law.', 'The TikTok app, which might have earned its users a fair amount of ridicule for their often hilarious shenanigans, helped a runaway woman reunite with her family on Monday, three years after she fled her house.', 'According to the police, the woman, a 16-year-old girl at the time, went missing on November 5, 2016. A case of kidnapping had been registered against unknown persons. In 2018, the case was transferred to the Anti Human Trafficking Cell (AHTC) of the Thane Crime Branch for investigation.', 'AHTC officers said that 10 days ago, the woman’s sister and brother-in-law recorded a video of themselves lip-syncing to a Bhojpuri song on TikTok and published it on the app. Shortly thereafter, the brother-in-law received a friend request on Facebook from a user called ‘Abhay Shetty’, who said he had seen the TikTok video and wished to interact. “While chatting with the brother-in-law, ‘Shetty’ started inquiries about his wife and also asked how many sisters-in-law he had. The brother-in-law found this suspicious and informed us,” senior police inspector Ravindra Daundkar, Thane AHTC, said.', 'Acting on the police’s instructions, the brother-in-law kept chatting with ‘Shetty’ and casually mentioned that his mother-in-law — the woman’s mother — was seriously unwell. ‘Shetty’ immediately made a video call to the brother-in-law, revealing her true identity in the process, and asked what was wrong with her mother. The brother-in-law asked her to come to the Charai area in Thane, where his wife is being trained as a nurse.', 'When the woman showed up, AHTC officers, who were waiting in plain clothes, took her into custody and questioned here.', 'On November 5, 2016, after fleeing from her sister’s house, the woman took a train and alighted at Byculla railway station, where she met an older woman. With the woman’s help, she secured employment with a catering service and was soon sent to Surat for a job, where she met an event organiser.', 'The AHTC will file a summary report in the Thane court seeking that the case be closed as the woman is safe and sound, officers said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


One-stop source for organ donations, availability soon
['Centralised software on the availability of organs and their donation in the State will be operational in eight weeks’ time, an affidavit before the Bombay High Court said on Monday.', 'A Division Bench of Justices Abhay Oka and A.S. Gadkari was hearing a petition filed by Siddanth Pal in 2013, seeking a direction for implementation of provisions of Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules. He has also sought real-time data on the availability of organs.', 'The principal secretary of the Public Health Department and secretary of the Medical Education and Drugs Department filed an affidavit that reads, “All the organ transplant data received directly from the registry transplant hospital is maintained by the State Appropriate Authority, i.e., Director Health Services, which is updated manually every month.” A web-based centralised data software is under development with the assistance of the director of information and technology, it said.', 'Awareness about the Human Organ Transplant Act Rules, 2014 as well as the importance of donation of human organs in cases of brain stem death and the benefits of transplantations in organ failure is being carried out through posters, banners, short films, radio jingles etc, the affidavit said.', 'There are group discussions, debates, talks and training programmes for transplant co-ordinators and doctors, and paramedical staff too are being organised through Regional Organ Transplant Organisation and Zonal Transplant Coordination Centres, it said.', 'The DHS has issued directions to all hospitals to maintain a centralised record of organ transplants carried out every year. It receives hospital-wise and organ-wise information of transplant every month from all centres on the basis of which the DHS monitors the implementation of the Rules, it said.', 'There are 92 registered hospitals for organ transplantation under The Transplantation of Organ and Tissue Act, 1994. However, hospital-based authorisation committees are non-existent in 74 of these. The number of organ transplants have been less than 25 in 2018.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Six-year-old survives freak accident
['Doctors from Zen Multi Speciality Hospital in Chembur have operated on a six-year-old girl who fell off a parapet onto a metal rod that pierced through her head. Sejal Yadav has recovered well after surgery and was discharged from hospital last week.', 'According to neurosurgeon Dr. Batuk Diyora, the rod had pierced from the right side into her brain. “The skull bone too had pierced through her brain due to the impact,” Dr. Diyora said. She was immediately taken in for surgery, which involved removing the fragments of the bone and repairing the dural tear of the brain. “There is no damage to her speech or senses. She is responding well and the weakness on the left side of her body will also reduce over the weeks,” he said.', 'Sejal was playing in her one-storey house in Chembur, and fell from a height of about eight feet on February 13. Since the rod was fixed, the parents had to pull Sejal off it and rush her to the hospital. “She was brought in an unconscious condition,” Dr. Diyora said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


BMC to print complaint numbers on clean-up marshals’ receipts
['A clean-up marshal keeps watch on litterbugs.', 'In the wake of a growing number of complaints against clean-up marshals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will print complaint numbers for people to call on, behind receipts issued by the marshals. The complaint helpline numbers are 1292 and 1293. A signboard with the numbers will be put up at Dadar as the BMC has been getting the most number of complaints from here.', 'While the policy is pending with the Standing Committee, the number of complaints against marshals are piling up. Marshals reportedly fleece unsuspecting people in public places, overcharge, do not give proper receipts, talk rudely, target travellers boarding long-distance trains by standing near the Swami Narayan temple near the station.', 'The scheme to have designated marshals in every ward was introduced in 2007, but was discontinued in 2011 after a large number of complaints of corruption and extortion. It was revived in 2016, but the contractors’ tenure ended in June 2017. The agencies have been given extensions of one year and another four months.', 'There have been several instances of clean-up marshals being booked for extortion or even assault. The corporation has appealed to people to file complaints with it or with the police.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Vashi real estate agent booked for rape
['The Vashi police have registered a case against a real estate agent after his 35-year-old live-in partner claimed that he raped her on the pretext of marrying her.', 'The complainant said that her parents were Navy officers and she has been working with a private firm in Vashi for the past seven years. In 2016, she decided to buy a flat near her workplace to avoid the long commute from her house. She began searching for flats on real estate portals and came into contact with the accused, Sushil Singh.', 'According to the complaint, Mr. Singh often accompanied the victim when she went to visit the flats. An officer from the Vashi police station said, “The duo soon started having an affair and Mr. Singh moved in with her when she purchased a flat in Airoli in 2017.” According to the complainant, Mr. Singh promised to marry the victim once both of them were financially stable.', 'In November 2018, a woman claiming to be Mr. Singh’s wife called the victim and started abusing her. The victim then lodged a complaint against the woman with the Rabale police. Later, when the victim confronted Mr. Singh, he confessed that he was married and had three children. He then stopped meeting her.', 'In January 2019, he contacted her again and said he had initiated divorce proceedings with his wife. He then claimed that his wife had kicked him out of his house and moved into the victim’s house for 10 days.', 'Police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal from Vashi police station said no arrests have been made so far in the case, but investigation is in on.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Dummy bomb found at Gorai ground
['False alarm: The dummy bomb, made of plastic, was similar to ones used in film shoots.', 'A dummy bomb was found at a dumping ground in Borivali on Monday, just as the panic over the explosion in Mira Road and the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) found in Raigad district is still subsiding.', 'According to the Borivali police, local residents spotted a suspicious object at the ground around 8.45 a.m. and reported it to the police. A team of police personnel, along with the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, reached the spot and found it to be a dummy bomb made of plastic, the kind that is used in film shoots.', 'Rumour-mongers, however, swung into action, and within a couple of hours social media was rife with reports of “one more bomb” being found in Gorai. The message was forwarded widely, including to people outside the city, leading to panic and concern.', 'Sources said given the current atmosphere, the possibility of antisocial elements placing the dummy at the spot purposely to create panic could not be denied. “As the spot is a dumping ground, it is equally possible that it was simply discarded there by someone. We are conducting inquiries in the area to find out if anyone saw the dummy being placed or discarded at the spot,” a police officer said.', 'The incident comes close on the heels of two similar ones this month. On February 20, a small crudely made explosive was detonated outside a hotel in Mira Road. The bomb, made from plastic balls, a jute fuse and a plastic bottle, did not cause any damage to property or life. The Kashimira police are conducting investigations into the incident.', 'The same night, an IED was found aboard a State Transport bus that had travelled from Karjat to Apta village in Raigad. Inquiries revealed that the IED was initially placed on an Alibaug-Karjat bus and was mistakenly taken to the other bus by the driver during his change of shift, who thought it was part of the conductor’s belongings. The matter is being investigated by the Raigad police and Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


73-year-old woman ends life in Parel
['A 73-year-old woman, who stayed alone at her 26th floor flat in Crescent Bay tower near Wadia Hospital in Parel, took her life on Monday.', 'The RAK Marg police said that a security guard found the deceased, Savita Sharma, lying in a pool of blood at the back-end of the building’s compound. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead before admission. The police started inquiries after they were informed about the incident at 7.45 a.m.', 'The police also made inquiries with Sharma’s daughter, who stays with her husband and in-laws on SS Road in Parel. Officers said no suicide note was found in Sharma’s house or on her person. Saurabh Tripathi, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone IV), said, “Sharma’s daughter has not expressed any suspicion of foul play. An Accidental Death Report has been registered in connection with the incident.” The police are also speaking to neighbours and family friends to check if Sharma displayed suicidal tendencies or confided in anyone about planning to take the extreme step.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Cash crunch puts BEST museum plan on hold
['No progress: In 2017, the BEST had announced its intention to shift its existing museum at Anik depot in Wadala to the new penguin exhibit building inside the Byculla zoo.', 'The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking’s poor financial health has put its proposal to set up a transport museum inside Byculla zoo on the back burner.', 'The BEST authorities had declared their intention of creating a museum inside the zoo two years ago to showcase the city’s transport heritage. However, there has been no progress since the announcement.', 'In 2017, the BEST had announced its intention to shift its existing museum at Anik depot in Wadala to the new penguin exhibit building inside the zoo. The decision was based on the poor footfall at the existing 20-year-old museum.', 'The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was of the view that it would expose the visitors of the penguin exhibit to the city’s transport history as most metropolises across the world have one such museum. It was supposed to house models of all of the city’s known transport systems, starting from the tram to the Metro and Monorail. It was also supposed to have a electric tram simulator.', 'Sunil Ganacharya, another committee member and BJP corporator, said, “I think it is correct that the administration wants to focus on the BEST’s revival now. The museum can be looked into later.” The existing museum at Anik depot will stay now.', 'The BEST had recently recovered from one of the longest strikes by workers’ unions in its history. The strike, demanding pay hike and merger of the BEST budget with the BMC budget. went on for nine days. Transport experts and activists have suggested measures that need to be undertaken immediately to save the BEST.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


12 duped of ₹1.72 cr. in Ponzi scheme
['A Panvel resident has been booked for allegedly cheating 12 people of ₹1.72 crore in a Ponzi scheme involving cryptocurrency. According to Unit I of the Economic Offence Wing, Navi Mumbai Police, the accused had created a virtual company.', 'Nanasaheb Patil, an agriculture trader working in Sector 17, Vashi, filed a case with the Vashi police on Thursday, saying that Pritam Patil cheated him and his employees of ₹1.72 crore by promising good returns via his ‘KBC coin’ scheme.', 'According to Mr. Patil, in October 2017, Pritam and his friend Pintu Bajaj visited him in his office. The accused introduced himself as the technical head of ‘KBC coin’ and Mr. Bajaj as the CEO. He told Mr. Patil the rate of KBC coin was 40 paise and would rise to $1 by March 2018. He suggested that Mr. Patil arrange a meeting with his employees, where the accused could explain the scheme.', 'Around 12 employees showed interest in investing in the scheme. When asked to show the company’s documents, the accused told Mr. Patil that in such cases, the URL of the company serves as its documents, and that the transactions are done only in cash. Mr. Patil was told that an ID generated on paying the cash would be the receipt.', 'From December 2017 to April 2018, Mr. Patil and his employees paid ₹1.72 crore to the accused. Mr. Patil noticed Pritam had changed the company name to AFC Mint coin. “He told Mr. Patil that a company by the same name in Nashik had cheated people, and he had been receiving the flak and hence changed the name. By September 2018, the website had shut down. When Mr. Patil contacted the accused, he was told the company had shut and won’t be receiving the money any more,” an EOW officer said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Stop hiring ayurveda doctors, says IMA
['The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to the State government to stop hiring ayurveda doctors and appoint MBBS doctors in wellness centres on a permanent basis.', 'Under Ayushman Bharat, primary health centres will be upgraded to health and wellness centres, and the State government has permitted ayurveda doctors to practice allopathy at these centres after undergoing a six-month course in modern medicine.', 'Crosspathy, mix-pathy are terms used for Ayurveda, homeopathy or Unani practitioners who prescribe allopathy medicines. The IMA has been opposing the bridge course. designed for such alternative medicine practitioners to get into modern medicine practice.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Don’t fool us with drama: sanitation staff
['For a better living: Sanitation workers collect signed copies of a 2015 Government Resolution (GR), calling it a ‘GR wapsi ’ protest against the delay in its implementation.', 'A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi washed the feet of sanitation workers in Prayagraj as a mark of respect for their work, their counterparts from Maharashtra gathered at Azad Maidan on Monday to protest the delay in increasing their minimum wages, asking the government to stop its “theatrics” ahead of the general election.', 'According to the protesters, a Government Resolution (GR) issued in 2015 said the minimum wages of sanitation workers in municipal corporations and councils, other than gram panchayats, shall be increased to ₹15,800. However, the resolution has still not been implemented, despite the sanitation workers meeting the Governor and the State Labour Minister twice in the last four years, they said.', 'The unions have demanded the implementation of the 2015 GR, constitution of a new committee to fix new minimum wage rates, and payment of arrears since the GR was issued.', 'The unions have also asked for the non-payment of workers’ dues to be considered as an offence under the Atrocities Act.', 'Mumbai has around 6,000 sanitation workers, while Thane has 1,400, Navi Mumbai 6,500 and Pune around 3,000. Union leaders claimed that the government owes ₹1,20,000 to ₹3,25,000 to workers in Mumbai, ₹1,60,000 to ₹2,60,000 to those in Thane and ₹1,60,000 to workers in Navi Mumbai in arrears.', 'Sanitation workers from all over the State participated in the protest. Ravindra Jadhav and Shashikant Tambe, who came all the way from Kankavli in Sindhudurga district, said they were removed from the Government Hospital in their home town after asking for a raise. “We led a protest at the collector’s office and the next day the authorities told us that our contracts had been terminated. We were left high and dry just because we had demanded for our rightful payments,” Mr. Jadhav said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


JJ Hospital brings mother, child care wards under one roof
['The JJ Hospital campus is spread across over 40 acres with departments located in different buildings.', 'The paediatric department of the State-run JJ Hospital will soon be shifted to the building that houses the gynaecology department.', 'The hospital authorities have decided to rearrange the wards in order to bring the mother and child care services under one roof.', 'JJ Hospital’s newly appointed dean, Dr. Ajay Chandanwale, said that having maternal care and child care services in close proximity would be helpful.', 'Dr. Chandanwale said, “The ground floor of Balaram building housed the psychiatry and leprosy wards, and the tuberculosis ward was situated on the first floor. We have shifted these wards to another building to make space for the paediatric wards.” The four-storey Balaram building now houses the gynaecology department, labour ward and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.', 'Close comfort: The four-storey Balaram building will now house the paediatric and gynaecology departments.', 'He said maternal and child care services are interconnected and most hospitals have these departments located close to each other.', 'The JJ Hospital campus is spread across over 40 acres with departments located in different buildings. Doctors say some rearrangement may help patients and the hospital staff. The hospital will see a transformation soon with a new super speciality building being planned. Recently, the hospital received a green signal from the government to construct a super speciality tower, which will house over 20 operation theatres and state-of-the-art cardiac care facilities. A heritage building on campus was demolished after acquiring permissions to make space for the tower.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Jet Airways pilots to wear black bands, not to work extra hours
['Following a crucial meeting of Jet Airways management with its pilot union on Monday, National Aviators Guild (NAG), the pilot’s body announced a black-band protest from March 1 as the airline was unable to give a further payout commitment.', 'In a communique sent to pilots, NAG said that 25% of November salary along with 12.5% of December salary (Totaling to 37.5%) will be processed on February 26. “Since the management was unable to give any further payout commitment, a flight safety period along with black band protest will begin from March 1. A detailed mail will be sent soon by NAG,” the communique said.', 'NAG directed all its members to send their March roster to their respective team leaders in PDF format. “Roster should be sent latest by February 27. Members who are not on WhatsApp should send their roster via mail to their respective team leader,” it said.', 'Dissatisfaction among pilots has come at a time when the airline is yet to update on its resolution plan that was cleared by shareholders during an extraordinary general meeting held on February 21. The resolution plan includes allotment of fresh shares and conversion of debt into equity.', 'Jet Airways has a debt of nearly ₹8,000 crore and needs to make repayments of up to ₹1,700 crore by the end of March.', 'A press statement, issued by NAG late on Monday, said that it is in public domain that Jet Airways is going through turbulent times. “While all employees have been getting their salaries on time, pilots and AMEs (engineers) have been doled out part payments every once in a while and are now running several months behind on their salaries,” it said.', 'NAG added that despite this, the pilots had stood steadfast by the company and maintained flight schedules through the last few months in the hope that its support would see the brand we all helped build once again achieve the prominence it enjoyed not so long ago.', 'The pilots body said that to understand that it is now being forced to take some simple measures to alleviate the huge levels of stress. “Measures to ensure that at least the factors that are in our hand, such as maintaining the promulgated rest, spending time with our families, seeking professional help where the stress is getting the better of someone and so on,” NAG’s statement read.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


NCPA at 50: still creating, nurturing and serving arts
['The iconic National Centre for the Performing Arts, celebrating its golden jubilee, is a living example of how vision, imagination and perseverance of one man — the late Jamshed J Bhabha with support from the late Tata group patriarch J.R.D Tata — can create, nurture, and serve the arts, artists and art-lovers and feed the soul of an otherwise commercial megapolis.', 'On December 29, 2018 the great artist den entered its golden jubilee year.', 'From a humble beginning on a rented property on the Bhulabhai Desai Road in south Bombay and inaugurated by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on December 29, 1969, the NCPA today houses five world-class theatres — the Tata, Jamshed Bhabha, Experimental, Little Theatre and the Godrej.', 'The NCPA was registered as a public trust in June 1966 as the National Institute of the Performing Arts.', 'The current name was adopted in November 1967 and the first performance staged on December 29, 1969 on the rented premise, courtesy of the late Madhuri Desai, the trustee of the Bhulabhai and Dhirajl Desai Memorial Trust.', 'As part of the golden jubilee celebrations, the centre is getting a ₹50-crore renovation and upgrade, with ₹30 crore worth of modern sound, lighting and seating arrangements.', 'The first advisory board was full of renowned personalities like musician Yehudi Menuhin, film maestro Satyajit Ray, noted playwright P.L. Deshpande, music director Karl Bhm and sitarist Vilayat Khan among others, Mr. Santook said.', 'The first performance at the NCPA complex was held in May 1975 at the Little Theatre, the first property, and in October 1980 Indira Gandhi launched the Tata Theatre. The present Jamshed Bhabha Theatre was inaugurated in November 1999, but was gutted in a massive fire.', 'In May last year, for Bhabha’s 11th death anniversary, the NCPA inaugurated an exhibition of archival photographs that trace the milestones in Bhabha’s journey, first as an executive with the Tata group, his marriage to Betty Irene and the eventual founding of the NCPA with J.R.D Tata.', 'The exhibition, ‘Dr. Jamshed Bhabha Remembered’, is housed in the foyer of the theatre now.', 'Bhabha brought Mr. Suntook, who just wanted to lead a retired life after decades of service at the Tatas, to the NCPA in 2000 as vice-chairman, and following the demise of Bhabha at the age 93 on May 30, 2007, he took over as chairman in 2008.', 'Mr. Suntook dismissed the criticism that the centre is promoting more of western music and that the cost of hiring an NCPA theatre was high.', 'Suntook is bullish about theatre. “We will soon be finalising a tie-up with the National Theatre of London. We are also planning two big shows in the coming months in London and New York,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A virtual buddy
['Are you a homemaker and a great cook and dream of selling your food? You are looking at expanding your horizons, but don’t want to get into a regular job? Or you are a working person with some great cooking skills and want to sell what you make as a hobby? If you answer to most of these questions is a ‘yes’ then FoodyBuddy may be your answer.', 'It is a mobile App that helps you sell your food to people in your neighbourhood. “People get to consume fresh, authentic home-cooked meals, made people from various walks of life. We have home-makers, working women and even doctors, who want to explore their cooking skills,” says Anup Gopinath, who founded FoodyBuddy with Akil Sethuraman and Rachna Rao.', 'He adds food that is not normally sold is what you get through FoodyBuddy. Be it an authentic Gujarati dal dokli, Rajasthani dal bati, Andhra gattu vankaya or Karnataka’s gojju-avalakki, there are people who sell all these and more, assures Anup.', 'Quality Anup says is always good. “Sellers are never under pressure to sell a certain number of plates. We have people who cook for the joy of it and those who want to make some extra money. We have people, who cook for a family gathering and make a few extra plates that they sell through our App. Even when it comes to food delivery, the customer can either have the food delivered or the seller can request the customer, who invariably is from the neighbourhood, to pick it up from his/her place at a given time. The chefs can also announce their menu the previous day on the app,” explains Anup.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Food is more about emotions than looks’
['Desserts, says Arvind, are more like a luxury product. The creativity, special ingredients, and artistic dimension all go into making it a work of art.', 'Arvind also has many awards to his credit — he was awarded the World Chocolate Master 2014, represented India in “the Star of Chocolate 2016 (held in Rimini, Italy). Besides these he has participated in the “Malaysian Chocolate Master” in 2014 and says he was also one of the key persons involved in the dessert conceptualisation at Fabelle Chocolate Boutique, ITC Hotels. The crown in his chef’s cap is the Young Pastry Chef Award he received in 2013.', 'After years of working “with the best chefs across the globe”, he decided to start his own school, The Whitecaps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Mumbai's 'Maffy's'' review: Straight from the souk
['Marble flooring with intricate geometric inlays inspired by lattice screens that recall Islamic art, fez cap lamps that hang from the ceiling, a live shawarma and ice cream counter, and a tasteful explosion of colours – no this isn’t a souk in the Middle East, but a restaurant in Colaba.', 'The South Mumbai neighbourhood gets a little closer to West Asia with the opening of Maffy’s by Zout Hospitality. Named after a fictional character who travels all around the world from India, the eatery and its décor are inspired by its owner, Mufiz Rakhangi’s travels. Located on the ground floor of the Sea Palace Hotel, Maffy’s is Rakhangi’s first venture in the hospitality business. Amongst Rakhangi’s many family businesses – is the popular food shop Rakhangi General Stores, just off Worli Seaface, medical stores and Rakhangi Gas Service. He also provides liquid nitrogen to several city restaurants, giving him a direct connect with with several chefs and restaurateurs in the city.', 'Artworks of monuments from cities like Luxor and Marrakech adorn the walls of the eatery’s indoor section, the common motif being white birds in flight, representing wanderlust. The restaurant has two al fresco sections, both of which face the sea and one that’s lined by beautiful bougainvillea shrubs, reminding us of European street-side cafes.', 'We browse through the extensive menu designed by chef Nimish Bhatia, while sipping on the flavoured water. Bhatia provides an Indian touch and a contemporary twist to several dishes. For example, the complimentary molecular palate cleanser – Goat Cheese and Mango with Mumbai Chilli Achar. That there is a special focus on different kinds of hummus, 11 in total, with both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options, comes as no surprise. For a sweet taste, try the Red Hummus (₹325) where the classic chickpeas and tahini paste is combined with roasted beetroot which provides a luscious colour, and pearls of pomegranate. The Signature Smoked Hummus with Spicy Shrimps (₹400) needs more prep, as the shrimps are slow-cooked and the hummus tastes of citrus. Maffy’s uses a variety of wood chips to give different smoky profiles to different dishes. What’s unmissable is their lavash or pita bread, both of which are made in-house. The salad section is extensive with loads of options for both vegetarians and meat eaters. There’s Fattoulle (₹325), fattoush and tabouleh spiced with sumac; Bamia Bamia (₹375), a crispy okra salad; or Via Casablanca (₹475), a smoked salmon salad.', 'For some good old fashioned crunch, call for Istanbul Mücver (₹375) which are zucchini fritters made tempura style. For samboosa fans, Maffy’s has different fillings, there’s black chicken (not Kadaknath, the colour is owed to the ingredients, ₹325), duck or salmon. There’s a range of Pita Toasties (₹300 onwards). The vast grilled section offers different meat and veg options. The Moroccan Chermoula Paneer Kabab (₹400) is chargrilled paneer crusted with chermoula; Kabab Kash Kash (₹500) is a delicate mince meat kebab, flavoured with the freshness of parsley, a little pepper and other secret spices. They also have hand-stretched Turkish pizzas (Pide) and Levantine pizzas, tagines, phyllo pockets and arayes (chargrilled sandwiches). For someone who can’t do without a fragrant rice preparation, the Chicken Machboos, a Bahraini rice dish that offers a gamut of sweet (thanks to nuts) and spicy flavours.', 'Save space for dessert, as there are plenty of sweet options. There’s a fresh-churned ice cream stall with options like rose petals and almonds, salted pistachios, caramelised walnuts, and lemon and jasmine sorbet which is an excellent palate cleanser (all at ₹200). No scream for ice cream? Maffy’s will whip up Chocolate Hummus (₹400), Baklawa Lollipops (₹450), Lotus and Almond Mouhalabia and Salted Caramel (₹375), or take your pick from a host of shakes.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


We can defeat terrorism by upholding the unity of our society: former diplomat Arun K. Singh
['The U.S. appears to be planning an exit from Afghanistan after making a deal with the Taliban. How do you assess the evolving situation?', 'The U.S. under President Donald Trump clearly wants to pull out of Afghanistan. This is not something new. Even under former President Barack Obama, there was a concerted attempt to pull out of Afghanistan. There is a certain amount of wariness in American society about this prolonged involvement in Afghanistan. It has now gone on for almost 18 years. There have been costs, economic and social. Obama was not able to do it, partly due to the push from the U.S. military and partly because he was worried that if there was a major terrorist attack in the U.S. after the pullout, and sourced from Pakistan or Afghanistan... that would have been devastating. The U.S. also did not want to convey the message that it lost in Afghanistan. Then there would have been wider consequences.', 'Trump and his politics are different. I think he is in a position to handle the consequences of pulling out even if there is a subsequent attack in the U.S. Their challenge now is that the military is pushing for a slow drawdown, as they don’t want to create the impression that they have been defeated and leave, like they did in Vietnam. They would like to make an agreement on a political solution, and even if that collapses after a few months, the U.S. cannot be held responsible.', 'This is causing a lot of anxiety among groups within Afghanistan. The Afghan President has concerns. The Taliban is reaching out to different countries and groups within Afghanistan, barring the government. Much will depend on whether the Taliban is negating what happened over the last 18 years or accepting the broad parameters of the Afghan Constitution; whether it accommodates others, shows more moderation and also talks to the government. If it is not willing to do that, there will be further instability.', 'What chances do you see of the Taliban moderating and accepting the broad parameters of the present Constitution?', 'At the moment it looks difficult. The Taliban has managed to create an impression that the present effort is not succeeding, and it has an edge militarily. It also perceives the U.S. as being keen to withdraw from Afghanistan. I don’t think it would be willing to make much compromise. Also, there is the question of whether Pakistan is willing to accept an independent and autonomous Afghanistan. Pakistan will be tempted to think that it sustained the Taliban for 18 years and now if the Taliban is back in power, it can re-establish its pre-2001 equity in Afghanistan. That then raises the question of how much independence the Taliban will be able to exercise with regard to Pakistan.', 'Regardless of how the U.S. withdrawal happens, the Taliban will consider this as its victory, right?', 'The Taliban will consider it a victory, many in Pakistan will also consider it a victory. Since 2001, Pakistan has been under tremendous pressure from the U.S. to give up support for the Taliban, for the Haqqani network. Pakistan has managed to sustain its support for these groups, risking its ties with the U.S.', 'After the exit of the Soviets from Afghanistan, Islamists had claimed they would defeat the Western capitalist system. Will they feel vindicated?', 'Yes, they will. There will be a reinforced argument that the radical Islamist forces defeated the Soviets, and now they have defeated the world’s most powerful country. It will certainly encourage extremist tendencies in the Islamic world. We will see the impact of this in different parts of the world. In Syria, Iraq, and other parts of the Gulf, Africa, and even European countries.', 'For the Islamists, Kashmir is also part of the same continuum. How do you think the situation in Afghanistan will influence the situation in Kashmir?', 'Clearly, there are some links. If you see reports about the Pulwama attack, people who were fighting in Afghanistan earlier put together the IED that was used. Afghanistan was, in the past, used to train terrorists for action in India. When the IC-814 hijacking happened [in 1999], the released terrorists were taken to Kabul and they reportedly had meetings with Mullah Omar and Osama bin Laden. There is a link between Afghanistan and Kashmir: the entity that controls both is the ISI [Inter Services Intelligence]. In the 1990s, when the challenges in Kashmir flared up, one of the factors fanning those was the dissolution of the Soviet Union.', 'Besides being a morale booster, this could also lead to redeployment of personnel from the Afghan front to Kashmir.', 'Yes, unless there is continued instability in Afghanistan. If they get free, they could be deployed elsewhere.', 'Pakistan is at the centre of all these calculations. The U.S. was categorical in calling out Pakistan after Pulwama. How does it square with its priorities in Afghanistan?', 'India must continue to explain to the world the challenge that Pakistan is posing to global stability. Not every country faces those challenges in the same fashion as India does. We are right next door. But it is not just India. Recently, Afghanistan and Iran came out with statements directly accusing Pakistan. Attacks in the U.S. and the U.K. have been sourced to Pakistan. At the same time, we should be aware of the limit to what one can achieve in the short term. Each country looks at its relationship with Pakistan from the perspective of its own interest. Of all statements from other countries on Pulwama, one can say there is widespread support for India, but very few countries have directly named Pakistan. The U.S. specifically named Pakistan and asked for measures against terrorists; in the French statement, there is a reference to cross-border terrorism. All the other countries made general statements on terrorism. So one has to understand the limits. Three countries are critical for Pakistan. One is China, for political support, military equipment and investment. China will not discontinue its support. Saudi Arabia will continue its support for Pakistan, which it sees as a large Muslim country where its interests are critical. When MBS [Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman] was under international pressure, [Pakistan Prime Minister] Imran Khan went to support him. Similarly, the U.S., despite all the current challenges in the relations, does not want to burn all its bridges with Pakistan. Despite all that has happened, it has not declared Pakistan a terrorist state as that would disrupt diplomatic engagement.', 'India-China ties also keep oscillating. How will China respond to the current tensions between India and Pakistan?', 'We will have to wait and watch. China has not come 100% to the side of Pakistan. China sees Pakistan as a useful partner to challenge India, but it will not come fully in support of Pakistan and against India. In Kargil, in 1971, it did not fully support Pakistan. It also made the right noises along with the international community during Kargil and after 2008, asking Pakistan to control terrorism. It would not want to lose India completely. Due to two issues — China’s opposition to India’s membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group and on the question of declaring [Jaish-e-Mohammed chief] Masood Azhar a global terrorist — the mood about China in India is negative. But I think it would be very careful to not get 100% on the side of Pakistan.', 'Why do you think China is staking so much on one individual, Masood Azhar?', 'I think it is clearly at the request of Pakistan. All the reports suggest that there are very deep links between Azhar and the ISI. Pakistan does not want to be in a position where it is compelled to take action against him. Azhar has remained loyal to the Pakistani establishment through thick and thin, and has been a great leverage for it in Afghanistan and India. It is clearly at the behest of Pakistan that China is giving him cover.', 'Given this context, how should India approach the conflict in Kashmir?', 'There are two dimensions to the problem in Jammu and Kashmir. One is the external — cross-border terrorism, state support from Pakistan, the situation in Afghanistan, etc. Then there is an internal dimension — the relationship between the Central government and the State government and the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The two have to be addressed, broadly speaking, in separate tracks. The radicalisation of youths in the State must be addressed urgently and politically. It has to be a battle of hearts and minds.', 'After every terrorist strike, there is a flurry of comments that broadly say India is paying the price for being soft. The argument is that India should have used more military force earlier. How do you see that?', 'A challenge like this has to be handled in a long-term framework, though short-term steps are necessary. In 2001-2002, after the attack on our Parliament, the government took a lot of short-term measures — diplomatic and military, including mobilisation at the border. It had some impact and a message was conveyed to the world and Pakistan. President Pervez Musharraf made some moves, such as banning Lashkar-e-Taiba and JeM. But short-term measures cannot do away with a problem of this nature. If one were to look at what the U.S. has done since 2001, nobody would accuse it of being a soft state or not having used power. But despite having used all that power, it has not quite achieved the objectives it set out to achieve. Or look at France and its use of hard military power in Africa. That has its utility, but that cannot resolve a problem. So it has to be a sustained effort, a multidimensional effort. It has to be handled with care and patience. One clear objective of Pakistan is to use terrorism to create a divide among communities in India, and that must be thwarted. If the people of India show unity and solidarity as these challenges are mounted, that would be a clear defeat of terrorism.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'This article is closed for comments.', 'French envoy says Dassault Aviation has been providing fighter jets for several years to India, building a relation of trust.']


‘I don’t get attached to any car’
['It was a dream to buy a Scorpio, so I bought one. Later, I wanted to buy an Audi as Radhika, my wife, who was my girlfriend then, wanted one. She felt that the car was nice and was keen on an Audi A4. But to surprise her, I went ahead and bought her an Audi A6.', 'Cars have always been there, but, I don’t get too attached to any of them. They are just a mode of transportation for me.', 'My life on wheels has been pretty non-dramatic, unlike my profession. But cars have been an important part of my life. I often eat in my car. In fact, if you see my car, you will see it is my second home. There will be clothes, food, snacks, besides a pillow and a blanket. I also carry a medical kit in my car. There have been times when I have even slept in my car, especially during late-night shoots.', 'I also love bikes, especially the RX 100. It has been one of my favourite vehicles. I was barely in high school when I was dreaming of owning one. But my parents did not buy me one till I was in college, when they gifted me an RX 100. I had also modified it in some small ways, which only added to its appeal.', 'Sadly, my parents sold it off as they felt I was beginning to get distracted and not focussing on my studies. That was the saddest day of my life. I was so disappointed that I almost locked myself up in my room for a couple of days.', 'After that, I decided, no matter what I wanted, I would work hard, earn my own money and buy my own vehicle. Even now, my parents tease me about my reaction.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Honoured to bring attention to under reported issue of menstruation in ‘Period. End of Sentence’, says Netflix
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners.", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


I don’t look that good anymore, says Arjun Rampal
['What kind of preparation did you undergo to play a pilot?', 'I didn’t have any experience of flying an aircraft. I have been inside a cockpit once. My obvious demand was to take me inside the cockpit of an airplane to understand things better. I did the flight simulation training where they use virtual reality to teach. I understood how to use the throttle, working with radars, what to press when you talk to a base and what are the different codes.', 'Like many other recent works, does it also aim to understand the mind of a defence person?', 'The main character here is not driven by nationalism or patriotism. Here is a pilot who was associated with the Air Force and some events have left unbearable imprints on his psyche. The show attempts to understand the mind of the protagonist. The focus is on the mind because as a pilot a lot depends on his mental focus. The mental disturbances, what all goes into his decision-making, has been dealt with in detail. I think more than external activities, if you try to understand the mind of the protagonist, it would help you understand what is driving him.', 'Once upon a time, there was a general perception that you are demoted if you work in television. Do you think a similar comparison exists with a web series too?', 'I don’t think that if you do some work on the OTT platforms you are being demoted, because the budgets here are comparable to cinema and sometimes much higher. Here, we are actually in competition with international platforms in which all great filmmakers from across the world are showcasing their content. The bar has definitely gone up.', 'Because of your modelling background, you were always praised for your looks and screen presence. Did you have to make efforts on acting to come out of that image trap?', 'Physical presence, that is the screen presence, is really important for an actor and it is humbling if I have that. How I look is not something of my doing. That credit goes to my parents. If someone is coming to watch me and not getting engrossed in the character, then obviously something is wrong.', 'How helpful was the deep baritone?', 'I don’t know. With time you understand how to use your voice according to the need. It is a part of the training that you do to throw or modulate voice. I don’t agree with the analogy that voice makes you a good actor. Sometimes, you are a great actor by not saying anything — pauses, gestures, expressions say a lot.', 'How has your approach to make the directors understand your process been?', 'You are also a producer now. Any learnings?', 'I have an idea about spending money on films and I know that films don’t fail but the budgets fail. So if you know how much you should spend on a kind of film, it will determine its business. And the rest is about taking chances.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


BIFFes: Fans demand dedicated app for the annual fest
['The Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) provides a catalogue of films, each with a short summary and a printed schedule for the week. Visitors select films based on this catalogue, but the summary alone is not enough to make a decision.', 'Many are now calling for an app with all the information. “Most film festivals today come with an app. One can even book seats through the app,” said Harish Mallya, a film buff and one of the organisers. He added that they had been suggesting developing such an app for three years now.', 'Film-maker Sandeep Kumar pointed out that it was not just festivals abroad that had apps, citing the example of the International Film Festival of Kerala. “It has an app that allows people to book three shows a day. Half of the seats at any show are pre-booked at the festival,” he said, arguing for a similar app for BIFFes. Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, said there were discussions on developing an app this year, but they were held too late. “We will try to get a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'He added that developing an app in the IT capital of the country was not a problem, and attributed the delay to the planning of the festival. “We need to begin planning for the festival at least five months in advance. Despite repeated attempts, the government clears the festival only by December. If we correct this, we will have a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


BIFFes: Chaos over last-minute rescheduling of films
['A First Day Cover by India Post being released to mark the 11th edition of BIFFes in Bengaluru on Monday.', 'Confusion continued at the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) on Monday owing to rescheduling of many film screenings at the last minute. At several screens, the audience and volunteers got into verbal spats, with some almost coming to blows.', 'Cine-goers were seen complaining of “high-handedness” of the volunteers and even alleged that they were manhandled.', 'Film-maker M.S. Satyu and other film-makers were not let into the theatre even though they had passes that provide a separate access to the theatre. Journalist Dinesh Amin Mattu alleged that the volunteers were rude to the audience and were often announcing a full house even though seats were empty inside.', 'However, the volunteers had a different story to tell. Krishnan, a volunteer, said the audience often jumped queues and tried to barge into the theatres making their task difficult.', 'Another volunteer said people resorted to ingenious ways to get into the theatres — not vacating their seats after the show is over and holding on to those seats for the next show, which would have long queues outside. Audiences also made their way into the theatre through the exit doors, forcing volunteers to be posted at the exit gates as well, they said.', 'Organisers had expected the crowds to wane from Monday, but that was not the case. People continued to throng the venue in large numbers. Many skipped the weekend fearing large crowds and started attending the festival from Monday.', 'N. Vidyashankar, artistic director, BIFFes, said two books — Kannada Talkies in 75 years and Random Reflections — present a bird’s eye view of Kannada cinema from its inception to today and beyond. “Puttaswamy’s book traces the cultural evolution of Kannada cinema, and Random Reflections looks at the larger picture, including the business part of it, and examines what could be its future,” he said. Senior critic Aruna Vasudev said she was happy to see scholarly works on Kannada cinema in English as it was very rare for the wider national audience to be informed of the cinema in languages apart from Hindi and hoped the two books would fill such a gap.', 'India Post also released a special First Day Cover to mark the eleventh edition of BIFFes on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Oscars 2019: happy surprises and shocking snubs
['Vice.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


Here is to more girl power: Guneet Monga
['The documentary shows how in Kathi Khera village in Uttar Pradesh, local women, deprived of affordable pads, don’t just find steady income and empowerment by making their own brand called Fly but also end up getting access to the feminine hygiene product themselves.', 'In a press note, co-producer of the documentary, Guneet Monga, thanked the Academy in recognising the efforts of the young girls from Oakwood as well as those in Kathi Khera.', 'She also acknowledged the decade-long work of Action India run by Gauri Chaudhary on spreading awareness about reproductive rights.', 'She added that period is an end of a sentence but not a girl’s education. “Here is to more girl power... I really want every girl to know that each one of them is a goddess… Now, that we have an Oscar, let us go change the world,” she said.', 'Monga is also a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences herself; she was amongst the 20 Indians invited to join last year.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners."]


‘This book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly’
['Why adoption? And why a picture book?', 'I have a question for you too!', 'Don’t you feel that alternative family situations have never been properly addressed in our popular culture, or mainstream media? In India, the lives of thousands of vulnerable children could be transformed by loving homes, yet there is virtually no coverage of adoption in kids’ books here. I wanted to open up a way for children from all family backgrounds, traditional and non-traditional, to celebrate how different kinds of families come together inseparably through love, including not only adoptive families but, for example, those with LGBTQ parents, step-siblings, or a surrogate mother. And what better way of exploring the ways of love with little ones than picture books?', 'Your text is simple but the words have been chosen with care.', 'All children’s authors would agree that writing for formative minds is a joyful but gigantic responsibility; every word must be chosen with care. But this book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly. It was brewing in my heart for a long time!', 'When: Usually at night. I often go to bed after my four year old goes to school!', 'Where: Anywhere quiet.', 'How: I jot down ideas wherever I can — my phone, my diary, a used envelope. I brainstorm my way through a rough structure in longhand, and write it on my laptop once the outline is clear. Oddly enough, I always write the first draft quickly, then agonise over making every word just right.', 'Both these books focus, in different ways, on equality and empathy, but they need to stand on their own as playful, imaginative stories that captivate a child. For instance, Mambi is a spunky monkey who wants to fly and swim like her ‘cooler’ jungle mates, but discovers that she has her own special gifts that help save her friends. Mambi sparks off discussions about how all of us are equal, with unique abilities and interests that we must embrace. I’m glad that Mambi has been so loved by kids (including children with special needs, whose experiences are insufficiently represented in children’s books).', 'What do you look for when picking up a children’s book?', 'I love books that are wildly inventive, that transport you to new worlds even as they make you understand your known world better. Books which, without being didactic, encourage children to think critically and creatively, and promote a kinder, more inclusive view of our world. Wicked humour is always a plus!', 'Tell us about the books you enjoyed reading as a child. Which children’s writers do you love now?', 'Any more books in the pipeline? Will these be picture books?', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ICF rolls out first set of swanky steel coaches for NMR
['The Integral Coach Factory on Monday rolled out first rake of stainless steel swanky coaches for the Nilgiris Mountain Railway.', 'The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has rolled out the first set of swanky steel coaches for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) on Monday.', 'The first formation of one rake comprising four new stainless steel coaches are heading to Mettupalayam in Salem Division of Southern Railway by rail.', 'The coaches that are used in the NMR now are more than four decades old and have been refurbished time and again. For the first time, the ICF took up the task of designing and developing new age steel-bodied coaches for the NMR. In all, 15 coaches are planned to be manufactured by ICF. Of these, 12 coaches will make three rakes each comprising of one first class, two second class seater and one luggage-cum-passenger car formation. The remaining three coaches will be spare coaches.', 'Replacing the old small windows, these new coaches have large windows for a panoramic view of the valley and meter gauge bogies with rack-pinion arrangement in leading axle having a total seating capacity of 146.', 'The first class has 32 seats, two second class - 44 seats each, second class luggage van (SLR) - 26 seats with a separate space for persons with disabilities to place their wheel chairs and sit. The coaches also have LED lights for use when the train passes through tunnels, hand brakes for pinion and also for wheels, covered space for brake man in every coach, inter vehicle coupler for driver-guard-brake man communication in the form of a microphone-cum-speaker at each cabin.', 'The remaining 11 coaches will be rolled out in a phased manner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Farmers complain of industrial pollution
['Residents of Moppiripalayam showing samples of the contaminated water at the weekly grievances redress day meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday.', 'The Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association that is affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha on Monday urged the district administration to act against the industry that caused pollution at Moppiripalayam village in Sulur Taluk.', 'In its petition submitted at the weekly grievances day meeting on Monday, the Association said that the effluents discharged from the company into a well on its premises resulted in ground water pollution and therefore affected agriculture lands, farm wells and the cattle that were dependent on ground water.', 'It wanted to know how the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board could accord permission for running such a polluting industry, the Association asked and sought action.', 'The residents also carried samples of water taken from the area.', 'Representatives of the 50-odd residents of Sri Rayar Nagar, Siddhapudur, on Monday petitioned the district administration seeking title deeds (patta). In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day, the petitioners said they had been paying land tax for over 35 years and property tax to the Corporation since 20 years. Former MLA V.K. Lakshmanan, following his visit to the area in 1996, wrote to the district administration, for their title deeds.', 'Though the then District Collector promised to issue the title deeds, the administration could do so following a court order.', 'But, of late, a few persons posing as government officials were forcing them to vacate the houses on one pretext or the other and the petitioners said that they suspected it to be the handiwork of people who wanted to grab their land.', 'Their inquiries with the Revenue Department officials concerned revealed that there was no move to evict them from their houses.', 'When they sought a few details like land classification of the area to the officials concerned, the petitioners said they were redirected to the Coimbatore Corporation.', 'They also said that people who lived in neighbouring colonies had got title deeds from the government and therefore the district administration should take steps to give them the deeds as well.', 'Sri Lakshmi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has appealed to the district administration to give up the move to establish a Tasmac-run liquor outlet in the area The Association said the access road to the area was a 13-foot wide cart track, which was also the road for residents of Nehru Nagar, Assisi Nagar, Narayana Nagar and a few other residential colonies.', 'Members of the Coimbatore District Association for the Deaf on Monday complained to the district administration that they were not getting the monthly financial assistance of ₹ 1,000 that the State Government gave them.', 'In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day meeting on Monday, the hearing impaired people said they wanted the State Government to provide job opportunities for those hearing impaired people who had completed class eight or 10.', 'The youth wing of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has alleged mismanagement of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. In its petition to the district administration, submitted at the weekly grievance day meting on Monday, it said that the hospital administration had given the maintenance, contract for construction work, and purchase of essential items to a Ukkadam resident.', 'In awarding the works, a CMCH hospital clerk acted as an intermediary.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two murdered in separate incidents
['Biji (21), a daily wage worker from the Nilgiris, was beaten to death by his friend in a drunken brawl at a place on Madukkarai market road on Sunday evening.', 'The Podanur police have arrested Mujibur Rahman (22), a resident of Arignar Anna Nagar on Eachanari road, in connection with the murder. The police said that Biji, Rahman and Reegan of Kuniyamuthur had consumed alcohol together on Sunday evening.', 'According to the police, Rahman attempted to take money from Biji’s pocket in inebriated state.', 'When Biji resisted the attempt, a provoked Rahman took a stone and hit him on the head.', 'The injured man was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died without responding to the treatment in the early hours of Monday. The Police have arrested Rahman on murder charges.', 'In a second incident, a marriage broker from Palakkad district in Kerala, was stabbed to death in front of his wife near Pollachi on Sunday. M. Subramani (58), a native of Chittur in Palakkad, was murdered by a man hailing from K. Nagoor near Pollachi following a quarrel.', 'According to the police, S. Selvaraj (42) of Sendhukinnaru Street near K. Nagoor had called Subramani to look for a marriage alliance for a known person.', "Subramani and his wife Sathiyavani (48) went to Selvaraj's house around 11.30 a.m.", 'The police said that Subramani and Selvaraj picked up a quarrel while checking possible alliances. In the course of the quarrel, Selvaraj assaulted Subramani in chest with fist.', 'Neighbours rushed to the house hearing the cries of Sathiyavani and called an ambulance. However, he died before the ambulance arrived.', 'The body was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The Gomangalam police are searching for Selvaraj.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


As summer season arrives, Forest Dept. on toes to control wildfires
['The fire which was reported in the limits of Madukkarai forest range on Sunday.', 'The Forest Department has stepped into the most challenging season of the year with the summer triggering incidents of forest fire and crop damages by wild animals that stray out from forest in search of water and fodder.', 'With the Department staff forced to engage in fire prevention activities, there is a shortage of manpower to prevent straying of wild animals from the forests, especially wild elephants.', 'Forest fringes of Madukkarai forest range witnessed minor fire for at least three consecutive days. Similarly, fire spread to forest fringes in Marudhamalai foothills on Sunday and Thoovaipathi-Panapalli areas of Anaikatti on Monday.', 'According to senior officials of the Department, more than 130 Anti-poching Watchers (APWs) and nine-member Rapid Response Team (RRT) are actively involved in the front in preventing forest fire in the Coimbatore Forest Division. They are supported by forest watchers, forest guards, foresters and forest range officers.', 'Along with incidents of forest fire, straying of wild animals especially elephants have started in several forest ranges. This was primarily due to shortage of fodder and water in forests.', 'In Thadagam valley, from where two wild elephants Vinayagan and Chinna Thambi were recently captured and translocated, is again witnessing regular crop raids by wild elephants.', 'Farmers from Thadagam said that another giant tusker whom people have named Komban is straying into agricultural fields on a regular basis.', 'Though elephant expert Ajay Desai, consultant to WWF-India, had recommended the Department to continue negative conditioning measures to prevent straying of other elephants, kumkis were withdrawn from the field.', 'The two kumkis of the Coimbatore Forest Division John and Cheran are at Chadivayal elephant camp where they are currently undergoing the 48-day-long rejuvenation camp. Similarly, 25 elephants of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are also part of the annual camp at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp. “These elephants will not be shifted from the camp unless there is a demanding situation”, an official said.', 'Meanwhile, P. Kandasamy of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (Non-political) said that District Collector K. Rajamani has assured to hold a tripartite meeting before March, 15 which is expected to become a platform to discuss issues such as human-animal conflict and damages to crops and lives. “This has been a long-time demand of the farmers and the new Collector has assured to hold the meeting. We hope that the meeting will address our grievances and bring scientific remedies to control human-animal conflict,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmer donates PM- Kisan scheme money to Govt. to dredge tank
['Anticipating the transfer of the first instalment of ₹ 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, a farmer on Monday donated the money to the district administration for dredging a water body near his village.', 'At the weekly grievance day meeting, K. Velusamy of Oonjapalayam, near Kaniyur, in Sulur Taluk, walked in with a demand draft for ₹ 2,000 drawn in favour of the District Collector. As Collector K. Rajamani was not present, he presented the demand draft with his petition to the District Revenue Officer, D. Ramaduraimurugan.', 'The farmer clarifies that he has not returned the money or was against the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, under which the Government of India transfers ₹ 6,000 each to farmers with less than five acre.', 'He says that farmers in his village have for long been knocking on the doors of the Public Works Department, district administration and State Government and petitioning State and Central leaders and ministers to have the tank dredged.', 'The farmers also petitioned Union Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, Arjun Ram Meghwal to include the tank under the Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies scheme, he says.', 'On hearing about him giving money to the Collector, many other farmers have expressed willingness to do so and soon there will be hundreds of them giving ₹ 2,000 to the district administration to dredge the tank, he adds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Icons of Coimbatore award presented
['Mr. Senthil said his group has been identifying persons for the award since 2013. Mr. Shaar said Syrian students were keen on pursuing their higher education in India because of the hospitable nature of the people and the culture. At present, there were 400 students in various Indian institutions. He also said that Syria looked forward to rebuilding the country with Indian support.', 'The recipients of the award were Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation, Manickam Athappa Gounder, Chairman, MAK Group of Companies, Jaya Mahesh, Founder, Jaya Mahesh Body Sculpting Therapy, Vignesh Prabhu, Illusionist, R. Manikandan, coordinator, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu, Manimekalai Mohan, Founder, SSVM Institutions, Nanjil Nadan, Tamil writer, A. Rajkumar, Chairman and Director, Clinical Operations, GKNM Hospital, Rajesh Govindarajulu, jeweller and columnist, R. Sathy, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Madukkarai, K. Priyanka, chess champion, A. Kanniyappan, Para Olympian, Balaji, radio jockey, R. Raveendran, Secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, and S. Vengojayaprasad, Diabetologist and Consultant Physician, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.', 'R. Manickam, Chief Executive Officer, Rathinam Group of Institutions, presided over the function.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Overwhelming response to essay contest
['Students from schools across Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts took part in the competition. The essays were scrutinised for language, ideas, creativity, relevance and presentation.', 'Hundred essays were finalised for prizes, from which the top five were given prizes at function held on Sunday at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.', 'President of Nanneri Kazhagam Iakako.Subramaniam spoke on how the association had strengthened over the past four years and established a connect with the young generation.', 'Writer Bava Chelladurai shared his life experiences with the gathering at the function. He was happy that nearly 75 % of the winners were girls. Emphasising the need to uplift the underprivileged, he said that instead of the rich, the protagonist of any writer’s work was a person who led a simple life with good attitude and upholding morality.', 'The first prize in the essay contest went to M. Kumudhini from Thambu Matriculation Higher Secondary School, the second and third spots were bagged by A. Sundharavalli from Sachidanandha Jothi Nikethan and S. Swetha from Venkatalakshmi Matriculation Higher Secondary School respectively.', 'A. Pranav from Adwaith Matriculation Higher Secondary School and M.V. Yoga Shri from Venkatalakshmi Higher Secondary School were the special prize winners.', 'The event was conducted with Vijaya Pathipagam, Udumalai.Com, Cotsvilla Resorts, Brookfields Mall, Sri Krishna Sweets and Lenco Timewear as the prize partners, Zone Hotel as the hospitality partner, Hello FM as the radio partner and Simplicity as the digital partner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


We never expected an Oscar: Muruganantham
['Inspiring people: Arunachalam Muruganantham in Coimbatore on Monday.', 'Arunachalam Muruganantham, a 56-year-old social entrepreneur in Coimbatore, had his handset ringing with congratulatory calls and messages on Monday morning.', 'After nearly seven years of research, Mr. Muruganantham started manufacturing machines in 2004 to produce affordable sanitary napkins. The machines are set up mainly in rural areas where women make the napkins and sell them. “I have installed 5,300 machines in India. More than one lakh women are employed and they produce 1,500 different brands of sanitary pads,” he says.', 'The aim is to achieve 100% use of sanitary napkins among women and provide self-employment opportunities to 10 lakh women. He has also enabled installation of the machines in 24 countries, including six machines in Pakistan and 10 in Bangladesh. He has trained a group of women in Afghanistan. One machine will be commissioned in Chennai on March 8 this year to be operated by 20 hearing and speech impaired women.', 'According to him, the challenge is not in installing the machinery but in breaking the taboo against use of sanitary napkins. “Several communities have beliefs against use of the pads. Such beliefs exist in many other countries too.” “The Government should include menstrual hygiene in the curriculum,” he says. The Delhi government plans to incorporate a summary of important events in his life in the school curriculum.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Ready for ready to wear!
['Ready for ready to wear!', 'Ready for ready to wear!', 'After nearly 15 years of romance with couture, designer Varun Bahl has now forayed into the ready-to-wear segment. His game-plan, he says, is to reach out to a wider audience. Venturing into the prêt market makes better business sense in line with this.', 'Tapping into the vast middle class market, Bahl will dress up the modern-day woman — one who dresses according to her personality, and not age — with saris, lehengas, kurtis, culottes, and trousers.', 'What was the catalyst for making an advent into prêt?', 'The aim is to reach out to more people than couture can. Couture is always going to be my first love, but this is super exciting. I want more and more people to wear my clothes.', 'How would you describe your collection? How is it different from your couture label?', 'The collection is contemporary Indianwear for the young-in-age and young-at-heart. There are a few evening looks in addition to daily wear. Varun Bahl couture strongly centres around florals. This label also incorporates floral motifs and a lot of nature. There are no straight lines. A line is created by placing a lot of five-petal flowers together. Also, my favourite subject currently is Art Nouveau. We have drawn a lot of curves from architecture and mirror frames and incorporated those in our seams, borders, and embroideries.', 'The idea is to create clothing that’s affordable for all. Our price range starts at ₹5, 000 onwards. We have very attractive price points with premium quality fabrics, and a large selection to choose from. There is hand embroidery on several garments as well as machine work; it depends on the style of the garment. We truly have something for everyone in this new prêt label.', 'On one side we have bridal, while on the other we have prêt. Is this how the market is panning out?', 'In apparel, yes, this is how the market is panning out. Bridal wear is a part of my couture line, while Varun Bahl Prêt is ready-to-wear clothing. Apart from this, I also look into wedding design and decor under my other brand Aurum by Varun Bahl.', 'Tell us more about the work you’re showcasing through this collection.', 'The collection has delicate 3D flower motifs as embellishments, wave-like seams, hems, and appliqué additions. Lazer-cut 3D flowers make for eye-catching details. Micro-floral gingham checks, sinuous, curvy lines, damask and mosaic patterns have all been achieved by tessellating the simple five-petal motif. Also, my signature transparent bombers, embroidered with silk-thread flowers can be used to update any outfit.', 'What else is new in prêt? How are you feeding into it?', 'The big thing in prêt is that couture designers are creating ready-to-wear clothes. They are reaching out to aspiring customers, and are targeting a wider audience.', "In prêt I have played with digital prints, and the 3D embroidery details inspired by my signature five petal flower pattern. But it is all about comfort and simplicity. Even the saris are minimal with ruffle details and soft fabrics. The entire collection is designed as separates, and then styled to achieve easy, 'put-together' looks. This is how stylish women dress today.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Oscar fashion: Tuxedo gowns, much pink, and jewel tones
['Actor and singer Billy Porter wowed everyone on the red carpet with his custom Christian Siriano tuxedo gown.', 'Jason Momoa too was part of the pink brigade with this blush-toned velvet suit, while Lisa Bonet complemented his attire in a Fernando Jorge dress.', 'Jennifer Lopez wore a metallic, reflective Tom Ford to the ceremony.', 'Kiki Layne, who gave a breakthrough performance in ‘If Beale Street Could Talk,’ too, took the pink route, albeit one with a gigantic sleeve, by Versace.', 'In a strapless Alexander McQueen, Lady Gaga took home the Oscar for her song ‘Shallow’ in ‘A Star is Born,’ her biggest role in a full-length feature to date.', 'In a custom Rodarte, Laura Dern joins the jewel tone line.', 'Danai Gurira wore a Brock Collection outfit, while Letitia Wright was in a blush pink dress from Dior.', 'Mahershala Ali won Best Supporting Actor, his second win in this category.', 'Michael B. Jordan brought his mother Donna Jordan as his date for the ceremony.', 'Olivia Colman won the Best Actress award, and she leaned into jewel tones for the ceremony.', 'Another tuxedo gown graced the red carpet, this time in the form of Allison Janney. This one, a creation of Pamella Roland.', 'In a black sequinned gown, Queen Latifah arrived at the awards with much oomph.', 'Latex made an appearance on the red carpet, as ‘The Favourite’ actor Rachel Weisz’s dress used the material to maximum effect. The dress is by Givenchy Couture.', 'Yalitza Aparicio (left) and Marina de Tavira, at their first Oscar outing wore Rodarte and J. Mendel, respectively.', 'In Brandon Maxwell, Sarah Paulson stood out with a unique cut.', 'In a backless, powder-blue Dior, Charlize Theron walked down the red carpet, reportedly wearing more than 300 carats of diamonds from Bvlgari’s Serpenti Collection.', 'Chris Evans made his red carpet appearance sporting a green velvet jacket.', 'Nominated for playing Dick Cheney, Christian Bale and the ‘Vice’ team went home empty-handed at the 2019 Academy Awards.', 'In a custom Louis Vuitton, Emma Stone embraced the shiny, structured gown.', 'Topping off the pinks was actor Helen Mirren in a confection by Schiaparelli Haute Couture.', 'Actor and singer Billy Porter wowed everyone on the red carpet with his custom Christian Siriano tuxedo gown.', 'Jason Momoa too was part of the pink brigade with this blush-toned velvet suit, while Lisa Bonet complemented his attire in a Fernando Jorge dress.', 'Jennifer Lopez wore a metallic, reflective Tom Ford to the ceremony.', 'Kiki Layne, who gave a breakthrough performance in ‘If Beale Street Could Talk,’ too, took the pink route, albeit one with a gigantic sleeve, by Versace.', 'In a strapless Alexander McQueen, Lady Gaga took home the Oscar for her song ‘Shallow’ in ‘A Star is Born,’ her biggest role in a full-length feature to date.', 'In a custom Rodarte, Laura Dern joins the jewel tone line.', 'Danai Gurira wore a Brock Collection outfit, while Letitia Wright was in a blush pink dress from Dior.', 'Mahershala Ali won Best Supporting Actor, his second win in this category.', 'Michael B. Jordan brought his mother Donna Jordan as his date for the ceremony.', 'Olivia Colman won the Best Actress award, and she leaned into jewel tones for the ceremony.', 'Another tuxedo gown graced the red carpet, this time in the form of Allison Janney. This one, a creation of Pamella Roland.', 'In a black sequinned gown, Queen Latifah arrived at the awards with much oomph.', 'Latex made an appearance on the red carpet, as ‘The Favourite’ actor Rachel Weisz’s dress used the material to maximum effect. The dress is by Givenchy Couture.', 'Yalitza Aparicio (left) and Marina de Tavira, at their first Oscar outing wore Rodarte and J. Mendel, respectively.', 'In Brandon Maxwell, Sarah Paulson stood out with a unique cut.', 'In a backless, powder-blue Dior, Charlize Theron walked down the red carpet, reportedly wearing more than 300 carats of diamonds from Bvlgari’s Serpenti Collection.', 'Chris Evans made his red carpet appearance sporting a green velvet jacket.', 'Nominated for playing Dick Cheney, Christian Bale and the ‘Vice’ team went home empty-handed at the 2019 Academy Awards.', 'In a custom Louis Vuitton, Emma Stone embraced the shiny, structured gown.', 'Topping off the pinks was actor Helen Mirren in a confection by Schiaparelli Haute Couture.']


Plants to perfumes: Natural fragrances in skin care
['Unscent and fragrance-free are new movements against artificial fragrances that seem to be all-pervasive: They’re in our soaps, our floor-cleaners, even our dish-washing liquids. As we’re relooking at our world and discover how many chemicals we have produced in labs, most of which are harmful, we’re dispensing with them from areas we can. Exit synthetic smells; enter all-natural ones.', 'The problem, says Dr Nina Madnani, a dermatologist and Senior Consultant with Hinduja Hospital, Mumbai, is that the health impact of synthetics can be anything from an allergy to a reduction in pulmonary function.', 'Fragrance-free is perhaps the ultimate fragrance. People need more fresh air in their lives, not air fresheners. “Finally, there’s awareness,” says Dr Jaishree Sharad, Dermatologist and CEO, Skinfiniti Aesthetic Skin and Laser Clinic, Mumbai. “Fragrances, particularly the synthetic ones, can be harmful to the skin.” She’s right. People today want to live a life that’s toxic-free, to avoid chemical sensitivity. “Fragrances top the list of products causing allergic contact dermatitis,” says Dr Madnani. There’s also urticaria, where the body breaks into hives.', 'The problem with perfumes is you don’t know what’s in them. The complex mixtures of the hundreds of synthetic chemicals they contain are not listed, but hidden under the term ‘fragrance’. Fragrances are made up of different chemicals. Numerous chemicals include geraniol, eugenol, citronellol, phthalates, styrene and methyl eugenol.', 'Dr Ekta Nigam, Senior Consultant – Dermatology and Cosmetology, Paras Hospitals, Gurugram sees perfumes as toxic, since they are essentially industrial products, but when a fragrance is extracted from botanicals, such as flowers, herbs, roots, leaves, and applied minimally, they will give you the protection the plant gets.', 'Also, essential oils are never used as is. They are added to a base or carrier oil that is not usually known to cause irritation, such as a vegetable oil. “If they are blended well they are not toxic. It is of utmost importance that essential oils are blended, as very concentrated oils too can be harmful for the skin,” says Blossom Kochhar, founder and chairperson, Blossom Kochhar Group of Companies and the pioneer of aromatherapy in India.', 'Using natural essential oils rather than synthetics to create a fragrance may bring emotional and physical healing. Organic perfumes do not contain pesticides or toxins which can cause skin sensitivity and environmental damage, if used wisely. So deriving perfumes with essential oil is not just easy and convenient, but also therapeutic.', 'To create the right balance, have one of each fragrance notes: base, top, middle. Blend essential oils together using a glass bowl. Mix them with 2-3 tablespoons of carrier oil in order to get a fragrance of your choice. Jojoba is one of the best carrier oils in order to create your own perfume. After you have added the right ingredients, transfer to a glass bottle and shake it up. This is your signature.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Rama Rao takes over as Municipal Commissioner
['M. Rama Rao taking charge as the Municipal Commissioner in Vijayawada on Monday.', 'Senior IAS officer M. Rama Rao took charge as the Commissioner of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation succeeding J. Nivas here on Monday.', 'Mr. Rama Rao, a 2005 batch officer of the State Civil Services cadre, earlier served as the Collector of Srikakulam district. He is the 23rd Municipal Commissioner of the civic body.', 'Speaking to reporters after assuming the office, Mr. Rama Rao said that he would primarily focus on sanitation and public health in the city.', 'He asked the civic staff to adopt the policy of talk less and work more for better results.', 'Mr. Rao stressed the need for teamwork, putting to use the best of the resources available.', 'Additional Commissioner D. Chandra Sekhar, Deputy Mayor G. Venkataramana Rao and others welcomed the Commissioner.', 'He later formally met Mayor Koneru Sreedhar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


A nuanced portrayal of women’s struggles
['From a brave mother who fought breast cancer to environmentalist Saalumarada Thimmakka who planted and nurtured hundreds of banyan trees, women who have made a difference came to life on the canvases of 60 artists at an all-women painting exhibition that concluded here on Monday.', 'The artists included a six-year-old girl, an 80-year-old woman, a homemaker, a doctor and Chitram Art Institute’s students, who depicted atrocities on women, social and psychological issues they faced and their conviction to fight back. In addition to this, the life of a woman from her birth to motherhood was portrayed.', 'The exhibition,‘Chitra Mukhi’, was based on the theme - reflecting ideas and skills of women - and featured 105 works created through media like oil colours, charcoal, dry and oil pastels, and multimedia, at the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati.', 'Young artist N. Alekya presented six portraits in a storyboard titled - Guns and Roses, where a woman is depicted as having turned into a warrior to fight back against injustices.', 'While J. Sudha, a homemaker, used acrylic colours to paint ‘Chintrangna’, 80-year-old G. Kanakadurga portrayed life of rural woman.', 'Mr. Sudheer said proceeds from the sale of works would be donated to kin of the Pulwama victims through PayTm.', 'Other paintings included ‘Gossip’ by G.V. Sirisha, ‘Elegance’ by Archana Balaji, ‘Power of Heels’ by Maha, ‘Feel the Love’ by Pranati, ‘Village Lady’ by Y.V. Ramani, ‘Fight for Time’ by Tara and ‘Expressive Woman’ by T. Dikshitha.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Live: Pak villagers shaken awake as IAF hits Jaish terror camp in Balakot
[]


Why IAF used Mirage 2000 to hit Jaish camps
['India currently has around three squadrons of Mirage 2000 fighter jets manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation. The squadrons are based in Gwalior. The government sources said the Mirage 2000 multi-role aircraft was chosen for the strike for its capability to hit targets with "pin-point" accuracy.', 'The Balakot-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terror camp destroyed by the Indian Air Force was located on the bank of the Kunhar river in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan and was also used by the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group. It was one of the largest camps of JeM that is said to have five-star facilities like a swimming pool, cooks and cleaners.', 'The terror group had taken responsibility for the February 14 suicide attack in Jammu and Kashmir\'s Pulwama in which 40 CRPF personnel lost their lives. The government sources said the Mirage 2000 multi-role aircraft was chosen for the strike for its capability to hit targets with "pin-point" accuracy.', 'A number of other assets and platforms of the IAF were also used in the operation, first inside Pakistan after the 1971 Indo-Pak war.', 'Why Mirage 2000?', 'Following India’s strikes on terror camps in Balakot, China on Tuesday sent out a clear signal that it would try to restrain New Delhi and Islamabad from aggravating the conflict instead of standing by Pakistan. China said that a sound and peaceful relationship between India and Pakistan is essential to maintain peace and stability in the region.', 'Hundreds of terrorists were shifted from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir to a resort style camp in a hilltop forest in Balakot after the Pulwama attack, providing Indian forces with "a sitting duck target" when they carried out an air strike early Tuesday, killing up to 350 terrorists, sources said.', "Tuesday's strike marks a paradigm shift in India’s response to Pak given that it is for the first time in recent times that India struck deep inside Pak territory, earlier, the focus would be mostly along the LoC. This is the first time IAF crossed the LoC to hit terror training camps in Pak. The last time such an attack took place was during the 1971 war.", 'The government sources also said India will have a much wider choice of aircraft to carry out precision strikes when Rafale jets are inducted into the IAF as they are capable of hitting targets at longer range. India is procuring 36 Rafale jets at a cost of Rs 58,000 crore and the first aircraft is scheduled to be delivered in September.', 'It is not clear whether the fleet of Mirage 2000s flew directly from Gwalior or they took off from other bases to carry out the strike.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


How Balakot camp in Pak was sitting duck target
['Hundreds of terrorists were shifted from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir to a resort style camp in a hilltop forest in Balakot after the Pulwama attack, providing Indian forces with "a sitting duck target" when they carried out an air strike early Tuesday, killing up to 350 terrorists, sources said.', 'Everyone at the camp was sleeping and Pakistani defence establishment had no clue that the attack was coming so deep into their country because they had expected a surgical strike on camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir near the Line of Control, said the sources.', 'Fighter and other aircraft took off from several air bases in Western and Central commands at about the same time, leaving Pakistani defence officials confused as to where they were heading, the sources said. A small group of aircraft broke away from the swarm and headed to Balakot where "the sleeping terrorists were sitting ducks for the Indian bombing," said one source.', 'The terror camp is located 20 kilometres from Balakot town.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Why IAF targeted Jaish's Balakot terror camp
['In the early hours of Tuesday, Indian Air Force jets targeted one of the biggest terror camps of Jaish-e-Mohammed in a "non-military", "pre-emptive" air strike in Pakistan\'s Balakot, the government said.', 'Surgical strike 2.0: IAF jets ...', "On February 14, a terror attack on a CRFP convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama martyred 40 paramilitary personnel.", 'The camp located in thick forest on a hilltop far away from civilian area was the biggest training camp of JeM in Balakot.', 'In the strike, "a very large number" of terrorists belonging to JeM, senior commanders and group of Jihadis were eliminated. The camp was being used to train terrorists for fidayeen attacks.', 'The selection of the target was also conditioned with an aim to avoid civilian casualties, he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


IAF strikes: China ditches Pak, advocates peace
['Following India’s strikes on terror camps in Balakot, China on Tuesday sent out a clear signal that it would try to restrain New Delhi and Islamabad from aggravating the conflict instead of standing by Pakistan. China said that a sound and peaceful relationship between India and Pakistan is essential to maintain peace and stability in the region.', 'Chinese foreign ministry said that sound and peaceful relationship between India and Pakistan is essential to maintain peace and stability in the region.', 'The Chinese foreign ministry also advised India to seek international cooperation to resolve the problem of terrorism.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Refresher course for teachers
['A total of 47 teachers from 10 Corporation schools involved in ‘Happy Schooling’ programme, an initiative by the Madurai Corporation to promote mental health, were taught to empathise, build confidence and take responsibility in a refresher course conducted by M. S. Chellamuthu Trust here on Tuesday.', 'Rajaram Subbian, founder, Basic Needs India, and a psycho-social consultant who conducted the course, said, “Teachers are often bogged down by academic pressure. It is necessary to help them understand how to make their teaching sessions more interesting,” he said.', 'He said the teachers showed tremendous development and integrated several important aspects like use of creating a learning ambiance. “If children need to study, they need a good atmosphere to learn. The vicious cycle of shunning education will occur without proper ambiance,” he said.', 'He said teachers should inculcate passion in their everyday lessons to capture the interest of students. This would make more students attend classes and the teachers would learn to recognise and appreciate each student, he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


8-foot-long python rescued; released in forest
['Forest personnel attached to Ambasamudram Range of Kalakkad–Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve released an 8-foot-long python, which was rescued at Kallidaikurichi on Monday, in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday.', 'According to Forester K. Murugesan, Fire and Rescue Services personnel received a call from the public on Monday evening about a python slithering around Selva Vinayagar Temple at Kallidaikurichi. Immediately, the Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and caught the reptile.', 'They handed it over to the forest personnel, who released it in the forest close to Manimuthar dam on Tuesday even as a group of tourists from Chennai, who had come to Manimuthar Falls, were filming it from a distance.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


The energy and talent mix
['Just as the cold winters have effortlessly changed to warmer days, there is no better way to welcome the sunny months with some refreshing western music concert!', 'Out of many facets of western classical music, choir occupies a very special place. The idea of blending vocals of multiple pitches in a musical is quite interesting. Hyderabad Western Music Foundation along with Kodaikanal International School (KIS) conducted an engaging choir event at St Mary’s Degree College Auditorium, Secunderabad last weekend.', 'The city sure lapped up the event and many people wished for more such concerts which not only enthrals connoisseurs of western music but also provide a great platform for young musicians.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘This book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly’
['Why adoption? And why a picture book?', 'I have a question for you too!', 'Don’t you feel that alternative family situations have never been properly addressed in our popular culture, or mainstream media? In India, the lives of thousands of vulnerable children could be transformed by loving homes, yet there is virtually no coverage of adoption in kids’ books here. I wanted to open up a way for children from all family backgrounds, traditional and non-traditional, to celebrate how different kinds of families come together inseparably through love, including not only adoptive families but, for example, those with LGBTQ parents, step-siblings, or a surrogate mother. And what better way of exploring the ways of love with little ones than picture books?', 'Your text is simple but the words have been chosen with care.', 'All children’s authors would agree that writing for formative minds is a joyful but gigantic responsibility; every word must be chosen with care. But this book tumbled out of me quickly and rather seamlessly. It was brewing in my heart for a long time!', 'When: Usually at night. I often go to bed after my four year old goes to school!', 'Where: Anywhere quiet.', 'How: I jot down ideas wherever I can — my phone, my diary, a used envelope. I brainstorm my way through a rough structure in longhand, and write it on my laptop once the outline is clear. Oddly enough, I always write the first draft quickly, then agonise over making every word just right.', 'Both these books focus, in different ways, on equality and empathy, but they need to stand on their own as playful, imaginative stories that captivate a child. For instance, Mambi is a spunky monkey who wants to fly and swim like her ‘cooler’ jungle mates, but discovers that she has her own special gifts that help save her friends. Mambi sparks off discussions about how all of us are equal, with unique abilities and interests that we must embrace. I’m glad that Mambi has been so loved by kids (including children with special needs, whose experiences are insufficiently represented in children’s books).', 'What do you look for when picking up a children’s book?', 'I love books that are wildly inventive, that transport you to new worlds even as they make you understand your known world better. Books which, without being didactic, encourage children to think critically and creatively, and promote a kinder, more inclusive view of our world. Wicked humour is always a plus!', 'Tell us about the books you enjoyed reading as a child. Which children’s writers do you love now?', 'Any more books in the pipeline? Will these be picture books?', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Chennai’s Senate House opens its doors to the public
['It stands at the site of what was once the Nawab of Arcot’s artillery park. From its shady boulevard guns were fired to greet visitors. Today, Senate House stands a silent sentinel gazing at the Marina as students mill about its grounds, pigeons roost in its eaves and visitors throng the Chennai Photo Biennale’s exhibition held in its ornate halls.', 'Senate House was completed in 1879. The library and teaching departments were built in similar style to lend it continuity. The fragile beauty of Senate House was the result of the genius of Robert Fellowes Chisholm who as a young engineer at 21 won a contest and was chosen to design Presidency College and a building to house the offices of the University. Chisholm is also credited with designing the Lakshmi Vilas Palace and the Museum in Baroda, Lawrence school in Ooty and the Rangoon Cathedral. In a way, he changed the skyline of Madras and by the end of his tenure in India in 1902 was considered the master of Indo-Saracenic architecture.', 'The main door of Senate House faces the Centenary buildings and opens to the Great Hall (150 feet long, 60 feet wide and 50 feet high from boarded floor to ornate, canvas ceiling). It was here that convocations were once held, here that students in robes and academic caps celebrated in jubilation before the University expanded and convocations were held at the Centenary auditorium across the road. When the first Assembly was constituted in 1937, it was here that it met.', 'Light from the evening sun filters through the arcaded verandahs supported by stone capitals with Indian figurines. The red hand-pressed brick is firm to the touch and cool despite the searing heat. Broomhall’s tiles cover the roofs from where pigeons fly out to wheel over the Bay and back. Windows — shuttered, vertical and circular — covered in stained glass and woodwork lend it the solemn air of a cathedral. Mooresque colours dominate the walls and lecture halls on the floor above are accessed through grand stairways. The minarets and porches lend it a fabled feel. From the star-embossed stone porches one can see the almost-forgotten statue of Queen Victoria seated shrouded under a canopy of wild bushes. Gazing at the sea and the cars parked in front of it with its back to Senate House is the statue of S Subramania Aiyar, first Indian Vice Chancellor.', 'On the day I visit, work is in progress for the Biennale. The clickety-clack of a typewriter from the Publications office on the ground floor echoes through the hall. Workers erect installations and artists are at work. Dust dances in the sunbeams that light up the floor and lends Senate Hall a touch of fast-fading old world grace. Go before its doors close and its beauty blushes unseen.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A life on the road
['In the next hour, I’ve packed two pannier-size bags, put my riding gear on, fired up the Harley-Davidson Street Glide and joined three riders on National Highway 48. The murky air clears up — as I leave Delhi’s noxious skies behind — and so does my mind: there’s never a good enough reason not to ride out of town.', 'Riding a motorcycle is all about sensory gratification. The sound of the engine, the wind buffeting the face, the satisfying clunk of the gearbox, the vibration under the seat. The best way to articulate what the H-D Street Glide — my ride for the trip — feels like, would be to amplify these inputs to superlative levels. While H-D’s new Milwaukee-Eight engine — infinitely more refined than its predecessors — takes a lot of credit for that, the weightiness of the Glide’s appeal is borne literally out of heft.', 'The largest ‘Softail’ in H-D’s line-up, the 400-kilogram Glide is the classic American cruiser, replete with a stereo, navigation software, massive windscreen, aircraft-like console, a couch for the saddle, and more chrome and leather than you’d find in a luxury car. If accoutrements, gravitas and comfort are the criteria, then the Glide is the motorcycling equivalent of the Starship Enterprise. Not one for puerile acceleration, it responds well to restraint, and a gradual build-up of momentum. And once you’ve understood how to channel that inertia, then it barrels through with the momentum of a freight train.', 'A long ride like Delhi to Goa is best done placidly. While it’s entirely possible to zip across in three days, our armada never hit warp speed. Four days, and atmospheric stops at Jaipur, Udaipur, Daman, and Pune later, I found myself riding alone on the final stretch down to the western coast.', 'At the first glimpse of the ocean, I stopped, pulled over, and wondered if there was anything else I would rather be doing at that moment. It all came together in that instant: the ride, the motorcycle and the place. Not sure about other directions, but at least this time, I knew what was in store for me, in the direction I nearly didn’t take. Jack figured it out a long time ago. I was surprised, as always, how easy the act of leaving was, and how good it felt. The world was suddenly rich with possibility.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


ICF rolls out first set of swanky steel coaches for NMR
['The Integral Coach Factory on Monday rolled out first rake of stainless steel swanky coaches for the Nilgiris Mountain Railway.', 'The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has rolled out the first set of swanky steel coaches for the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) on Monday.', 'The first formation of one rake comprising four new stainless steel coaches are heading to Mettupalayam in Salem Division of Southern Railway by rail.', 'The coaches that are used in the NMR now are more than four decades old and have been refurbished time and again. For the first time, the ICF took up the task of designing and developing new age steel-bodied coaches for the NMR. In all, 15 coaches are planned to be manufactured by ICF. Of these, 12 coaches will make three rakes each comprising of one first class, two second class seater and one luggage-cum-passenger car formation. The remaining three coaches will be spare coaches.', 'Replacing the old small windows, these new coaches have large windows for a panoramic view of the valley and meter gauge bogies with rack-pinion arrangement in leading axle having a total seating capacity of 146.', 'The first class has 32 seats, two second class - 44 seats each, second class luggage van (SLR) - 26 seats with a separate space for persons with disabilities to place their wheel chairs and sit. The coaches also have LED lights for use when the train passes through tunnels, hand brakes for pinion and also for wheels, covered space for brake man in every coach, inter vehicle coupler for driver-guard-brake man communication in the form of a microphone-cum-speaker at each cabin.', 'The remaining 11 coaches will be rolled out in a phased manner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Farmers complain of industrial pollution
['Residents of Moppiripalayam showing samples of the contaminated water at the weekly grievances redress day meeting held at the Collectorate on Monday.', 'The Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association that is affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha on Monday urged the district administration to act against the industry that caused pollution at Moppiripalayam village in Sulur Taluk.', 'In its petition submitted at the weekly grievances day meeting on Monday, the Association said that the effluents discharged from the company into a well on its premises resulted in ground water pollution and therefore affected agriculture lands, farm wells and the cattle that were dependent on ground water.', 'It wanted to know how the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board could accord permission for running such a polluting industry, the Association asked and sought action.', 'The residents also carried samples of water taken from the area.', 'Representatives of the 50-odd residents of Sri Rayar Nagar, Siddhapudur, on Monday petitioned the district administration seeking title deeds (patta). In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day, the petitioners said they had been paying land tax for over 35 years and property tax to the Corporation since 20 years. Former MLA V.K. Lakshmanan, following his visit to the area in 1996, wrote to the district administration, for their title deeds.', 'Though the then District Collector promised to issue the title deeds, the administration could do so following a court order.', 'But, of late, a few persons posing as government officials were forcing them to vacate the houses on one pretext or the other and the petitioners said that they suspected it to be the handiwork of people who wanted to grab their land.', 'Their inquiries with the Revenue Department officials concerned revealed that there was no move to evict them from their houses.', 'When they sought a few details like land classification of the area to the officials concerned, the petitioners said they were redirected to the Coimbatore Corporation.', 'They also said that people who lived in neighbouring colonies had got title deeds from the government and therefore the district administration should take steps to give them the deeds as well.', 'Sri Lakshmi Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has appealed to the district administration to give up the move to establish a Tasmac-run liquor outlet in the area The Association said the access road to the area was a 13-foot wide cart track, which was also the road for residents of Nehru Nagar, Assisi Nagar, Narayana Nagar and a few other residential colonies.', 'Members of the Coimbatore District Association for the Deaf on Monday complained to the district administration that they were not getting the monthly financial assistance of ₹ 1,000 that the State Government gave them.', 'In their petition submitted at the weekly grievance day meeting on Monday, the hearing impaired people said they wanted the State Government to provide job opportunities for those hearing impaired people who had completed class eight or 10.', 'The youth wing of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has alleged mismanagement of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. In its petition to the district administration, submitted at the weekly grievance day meting on Monday, it said that the hospital administration had given the maintenance, contract for construction work, and purchase of essential items to a Ukkadam resident.', 'In awarding the works, a CMCH hospital clerk acted as an intermediary.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two murdered in separate incidents
['Biji (21), a daily wage worker from the Nilgiris, was beaten to death by his friend in a drunken brawl at a place on Madukkarai market road on Sunday evening.', 'The Podanur police have arrested Mujibur Rahman (22), a resident of Arignar Anna Nagar on Eachanari road, in connection with the murder. The police said that Biji, Rahman and Reegan of Kuniyamuthur had consumed alcohol together on Sunday evening.', 'According to the police, Rahman attempted to take money from Biji’s pocket in inebriated state.', 'When Biji resisted the attempt, a provoked Rahman took a stone and hit him on the head.', 'The injured man was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died without responding to the treatment in the early hours of Monday. The Police have arrested Rahman on murder charges.', 'In a second incident, a marriage broker from Palakkad district in Kerala, was stabbed to death in front of his wife near Pollachi on Sunday. M. Subramani (58), a native of Chittur in Palakkad, was murdered by a man hailing from K. Nagoor near Pollachi following a quarrel.', 'According to the police, S. Selvaraj (42) of Sendhukinnaru Street near K. Nagoor had called Subramani to look for a marriage alliance for a known person.', "Subramani and his wife Sathiyavani (48) went to Selvaraj's house around 11.30 a.m.", 'The police said that Subramani and Selvaraj picked up a quarrel while checking possible alliances. In the course of the quarrel, Selvaraj assaulted Subramani in chest with fist.', 'Neighbours rushed to the house hearing the cries of Sathiyavani and called an ambulance. However, he died before the ambulance arrived.', 'The body was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The Gomangalam police are searching for Selvaraj.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


As summer season arrives, Forest Dept. on toes to control wildfires
['The fire which was reported in the limits of Madukkarai forest range on Sunday.', 'The Forest Department has stepped into the most challenging season of the year with the summer triggering incidents of forest fire and crop damages by wild animals that stray out from forest in search of water and fodder.', 'With the Department staff forced to engage in fire prevention activities, there is a shortage of manpower to prevent straying of wild animals from the forests, especially wild elephants.', 'Forest fringes of Madukkarai forest range witnessed minor fire for at least three consecutive days. Similarly, fire spread to forest fringes in Marudhamalai foothills on Sunday and Thoovaipathi-Panapalli areas of Anaikatti on Monday.', 'According to senior officials of the Department, more than 130 Anti-poching Watchers (APWs) and nine-member Rapid Response Team (RRT) are actively involved in the front in preventing forest fire in the Coimbatore Forest Division. They are supported by forest watchers, forest guards, foresters and forest range officers.', 'Along with incidents of forest fire, straying of wild animals especially elephants have started in several forest ranges. This was primarily due to shortage of fodder and water in forests.', 'In Thadagam valley, from where two wild elephants Vinayagan and Chinna Thambi were recently captured and translocated, is again witnessing regular crop raids by wild elephants.', 'Farmers from Thadagam said that another giant tusker whom people have named Komban is straying into agricultural fields on a regular basis.', 'Though elephant expert Ajay Desai, consultant to WWF-India, had recommended the Department to continue negative conditioning measures to prevent straying of other elephants, kumkis were withdrawn from the field.', 'The two kumkis of the Coimbatore Forest Division John and Cheran are at Chadivayal elephant camp where they are currently undergoing the 48-day-long rejuvenation camp. Similarly, 25 elephants of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are also part of the annual camp at Kozhikamuthi elephant camp. “These elephants will not be shifted from the camp unless there is a demanding situation”, an official said.', 'Meanwhile, P. Kandasamy of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (Non-political) said that District Collector K. Rajamani has assured to hold a tripartite meeting before March, 15 which is expected to become a platform to discuss issues such as human-animal conflict and damages to crops and lives. “This has been a long-time demand of the farmers and the new Collector has assured to hold the meeting. We hope that the meeting will address our grievances and bring scientific remedies to control human-animal conflict,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Farmer donates PM- Kisan scheme money to Govt. to dredge tank
['Anticipating the transfer of the first instalment of ₹ 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, a farmer on Monday donated the money to the district administration for dredging a water body near his village.', 'At the weekly grievance day meeting, K. Velusamy of Oonjapalayam, near Kaniyur, in Sulur Taluk, walked in with a demand draft for ₹ 2,000 drawn in favour of the District Collector. As Collector K. Rajamani was not present, he presented the demand draft with his petition to the District Revenue Officer, D. Ramaduraimurugan.', 'The farmer clarifies that he has not returned the money or was against the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, under which the Government of India transfers ₹ 6,000 each to farmers with less than five acre.', 'He says that farmers in his village have for long been knocking on the doors of the Public Works Department, district administration and State Government and petitioning State and Central leaders and ministers to have the tank dredged.', 'The farmers also petitioned Union Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, Arjun Ram Meghwal to include the tank under the Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies scheme, he says.', 'On hearing about him giving money to the Collector, many other farmers have expressed willingness to do so and soon there will be hundreds of them giving ₹ 2,000 to the district administration to dredge the tank, he adds.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Icons of Coimbatore award presented
['Mr. Senthil said his group has been identifying persons for the award since 2013. Mr. Shaar said Syrian students were keen on pursuing their higher education in India because of the hospitable nature of the people and the culture. At present, there were 400 students in various Indian institutions. He also said that Syria looked forward to rebuilding the country with Indian support.', 'The recipients of the award were Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev of Isha Foundation, Manickam Athappa Gounder, Chairman, MAK Group of Companies, Jaya Mahesh, Founder, Jaya Mahesh Body Sculpting Therapy, Vignesh Prabhu, Illusionist, R. Manikandan, coordinator, Kovai Kulangal Pathugappu Amaipu, Manimekalai Mohan, Founder, SSVM Institutions, Nanjil Nadan, Tamil writer, A. Rajkumar, Chairman and Director, Clinical Operations, GKNM Hospital, Rajesh Govindarajulu, jeweller and columnist, R. Sathy, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Madukkarai, K. Priyanka, chess champion, A. Kanniyappan, Para Olympian, Balaji, radio jockey, R. Raveendran, Secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, and S. Vengojayaprasad, Diabetologist and Consultant Physician, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.', 'R. Manickam, Chief Executive Officer, Rathinam Group of Institutions, presided over the function.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Overwhelming response to essay contest
['Students from schools across Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts took part in the competition. The essays were scrutinised for language, ideas, creativity, relevance and presentation.', 'Hundred essays were finalised for prizes, from which the top five were given prizes at function held on Sunday at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.', 'President of Nanneri Kazhagam Iakako.Subramaniam spoke on how the association had strengthened over the past four years and established a connect with the young generation.', 'Writer Bava Chelladurai shared his life experiences with the gathering at the function. He was happy that nearly 75 % of the winners were girls. Emphasising the need to uplift the underprivileged, he said that instead of the rich, the protagonist of any writer’s work was a person who led a simple life with good attitude and upholding morality.', 'The first prize in the essay contest went to M. Kumudhini from Thambu Matriculation Higher Secondary School, the second and third spots were bagged by A. Sundharavalli from Sachidanandha Jothi Nikethan and S. Swetha from Venkatalakshmi Matriculation Higher Secondary School respectively.', 'A. Pranav from Adwaith Matriculation Higher Secondary School and M.V. Yoga Shri from Venkatalakshmi Higher Secondary School were the special prize winners.', 'The event was conducted with Vijaya Pathipagam, Udumalai.Com, Cotsvilla Resorts, Brookfields Mall, Sri Krishna Sweets and Lenco Timewear as the prize partners, Zone Hotel as the hospitality partner, Hello FM as the radio partner and Simplicity as the digital partner.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Halting of buses at wrong spots hits traffic
['Over the years, Madurai-Melur Road around Mattuthavani has a significant development after the (now re-named) MGR bus stand came into existence. The markets for flower, foodgrains, vegetable and fruits and the omni bus stand along with scores of hotels and lodges have added to faster development of the area on both sides of the highway.', 'Despite the widened highway, traffic congestion during peak hours has become unavoidable between the Industrial Estate junction and Uthangudi junction. A series of bus stops and junctions too have slowed down the vehicular movement.', 'And adding to the traffic jam is halting of buses, mini-buses and autorickshaws on the highway opposite the entrance of the bus stand.', 'With passengers stand on the edge of the carriage way, buses halt on the middle of the road blocking the way for other vehicles following them. This includes buses from K.K. Nagar side attempting to enter the bus stand and other vehicles trying to make a u-turn back into the city side.', 'Vehicles coming out of RTO Office Road and those from Melur Road trying to cross this junction towards RTO Office road are also not spared.', 'Amidst total chaos, vehicles start moving at a slower pace as and when the buses that had halted resume their journey. But, the same blockade returns to the spot within seconds as another bus halts at the same spot.', 'The city police have somehow managed to prevent share autorickshaws from picking or dropping passengers at this point.', 'The crew of the buses also stop here with an eye on their daily collection. “It is the traffic police who bear the brunt when traffic gets choked,” he added.', 'A drive for a week or fortnight will end this menace that leads to traffic congestion up to 120 Feet Road junction and further.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Musical talent showcased well
['He explained how only a few languages had a continuous history of more than two thousand years, and, among them, Tamil was an active, classical language, which became a way of life .', 'The second programme of the day was a vocal concert of B. Gopalakrishnan, who was accompanied by R. Govindarajan on the violin, G. Jagadeesh Aravind on mrudangam, Avantiraj on khanjira and D. Bharadwaj on the moharsing.', 'S. Padmanabhan.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


One killed and 15 suffer injuries in Delhi bus accident
['A photo view of the bus accident.', 'A dumper driver was killed and 15 others suffered minor injuries when a low floor DTC bus and dumper collided at the ITO crossing in Central Delhi on Tuesday early morning.', 'Police said the injured dumper driver was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his serious injuries while 15 other passengers in the DTC bus suffered minor injuries.', 'A PCR call was received at around 4 am regarding an accident at ITO red light. A PCR rushed to the spot and found that a dumper coming from ring road and DTC bus of route no. 740 collided at ITO crossing when the traffic signal was on blinker mode. The dumper was coming from Ring Road and bus was going from Anand Vihar to Uttam Nagar when the accident happened.', 'An eyewitness said that due to impact of collision the bus veered off its track and rammed into the railings on median divider crashing into an electricity pole.', 'Police said they are trying locating the owner of dumper to identify the deceased driver. Efforts are being made to clear the crahed vehicles from the crossing to resume traffic.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Fact-checking of infoon Internet crucial’
['AU College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Ramamohana Rao felicitating Google Trainer Ravisankar Mudigonda at a workshop in Visakhapatnam on Monday.', 'Concerns over the authentication of the information available on the Internet are growing of late, Andhra University College of Arts and Commerce principal K. Rammohana Rao said.', 'Addressing a workshop on ‘Identifying Fake Content on the Internet and Fact-Checking,’ organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of AU, on Monday, he underlined the need for a mechanism to filter information flow and verify the facts.', 'Journalism and Mass Communication HoD P. Bobby Vardhan said technology had changed the face of information dissemination and checking the credibility was very crucial. Chairman of the Board of Studies D.V.R. Murthy said the Google had revolutionised information flow and it was high time it was regulated. Google Trainer-Fact Check Ravisankar Mudigonda explained how fake content could be identified.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Early onset of heatwave mayresult in erratic monsoon this year’
['Intense cyclonic storms are on the cards, says JAMSTEC scientist Swadhin Behara.', 'The early onset of heatwave conditions this year may result in a delayed and erratic monsoon in India, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) scientist Swadhin Behara has said.', 'Referring to climate change, Mr. Behara attributed it to the rise in the ocean temperature.', 'Explaining about the connection between the ocean temperature and climate, Mr. Behara said warming of oceans would lead to more intense cyclonic storms of category 4 and 5, rather than a prolonged monsoon season.', 'Over the last five decades, he said, the oceans have absorbed more then 80% of the global heat, impacting the ice in the poles. “The Arctic region is already bearing the brunt. We must cut the emission of green house gases before the Antarctic comes under its impact,” he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elaborate arrangements made for Intermediate exams tomorrow
['Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned private junior colleges in the state against withholding hall tickets of students with regard to the Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled for February 27, on the pretext of unpaid fees.', 'Secretary of the Board A. Ashok has threatened the managements with serious action if they were found resorting to such tactics.', 'Students who have not got their hall tickets as yet may download the same from the Board’s website starting from 4 p.m. on Monday. An exam centre locator App was launched at the same time.', 'A total of 9,42,719 students are set to appear for the exams this year; 4,52,550 for first year and 4,90,169 for second year.', 'In the General category, 4,09,090 are from the first year, and 3,82,996 from second year. A total of 43,460 are attending the first year Vocational, and 35,780 the second year Vocational, in the regular category, while 68,375 are appearing privately for second year General, and 3,018 for Vocational.', 'Of the 1,277 examination centres, 40 are self centres, where students will be allowed to write the exam in their own college for want of logistical convenience, Mr. Ashok said at a press conference on Monday.', 'A total of 24,508 invigilators will be deployed for the exams. Two hundred sitting squads have been deployed at the problematic centres, while 50 flying squads comprising members from Education, Police and Revenue departments, will conduct surprise checks to prevent malpractice. Exam observers too will visit the centres for surprise checks.', 'Photocopy shops near the exam centres will be closed during exam hours, 9 a.m. to 12 noon. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the centres, and question papers should be opened only in the visibility range of the cameras. A district-level high power committee with district collector as chairman and Superintendent of Police and others as members have been constituted, apart from District Examination Committees, for smooth conduct of exams.', 'The centres will be guarded by the police, and Section 144 CrPC will be imposed around the location.', 'RTC authorities have been requested to reschedule their services to suit the exam hours, and Electricity department, for uninterrupted power supply. Drinking water and medical facilities have been provided at the centres.', 'Candidates have been instructed to enter the examination hall by 8.45 a.m., and fill in the OMR details by 9 a.m. Fifteen minutes grace time will be permitted, and no candidate will be allowed inside after 9 a.m., nor will be allowed to go out before 12 noon, Mr. Ashok cautioned.', 'Cell phones, electronic gadgets, pagers, calculators, or any kind of printed/written material will not be allowed inside the hall.', 'Criminal cases will be booked against candidates resorting to copying, malpractice, or impersonation, and will be debarred, Mr. Ashok warned. A control room will function with the numbers 040-24601010 and 24732369 where complaints can be made if any.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ABC Centre to be opened on March 1
['Shelters for dogs getting ready at the ABC Centre at Poolakkadavu.', 'Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan will open the Animal Birth Control Centre of the Kozhikode Corporation on March 1. The centre, located at Poolakkadavu, has been in the making for over four years.', 'Corporation veterinary officer V.S. Sreeshma said that there were around 14,000 stray dogs within the city limits according to the corporation’s stray dog census in 2017, and that it might have doubled by now. “We target 500 sterilisations per month. Yet, we will be fully engaged for a few years to eliminate the possibility of stray dog multiplication in the city,” she added.', 'The centre has facilities to conduct surgeries for five dogs at a time, including pre-operative and post-operative wards with 19 kennels, a preparation room, doctors’ room, sterilisation room, pharmacy, lecture hall, incinerator, waste treatment plant, and a dog van. Four surgeons and an anaesthetist, besides dog catchers, were appointed at the hospital recently.', 'For now, the centre will conduct sterilisation of stray dogs. At the same time, pet dogs can avail medical care at the centre. The facility will cater for Kozhikode city alone for a few years, and the services will be extended to other local bodies later.', 'Dr. Sreeshma said a multispeciality veterinary hospital had also been proposed along with the ABC Centre. However, work on the ABC centre was expedited as it was an emergency situation. The hospital will take some more time to be completed, she added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Early intervention sought for congenital heart diseases
['Around 5,000 children are born in Kerala with congenital heart diseases in a year, and early diagnosis and surgery can prevent their condition from turning worse, a Kozhikode-based civil surgeon said here on Monday.', 'U.N. Ramesh, who is part of the organising team behind a health camp to detect congenital heart diseases among children to be held on March 3 here, pointed out that some of them were in a critical condition that required immediate surgery.', 'Atrial Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the two upper chambers of the heart, and Ventricular Septal Defect, a hole in the wall between the lower chambers of the heart, were the most common problems found among children, he claimed.', 'Dr. Ramesh said genetic problems or lifestyle issues, such as diabetes, of parents could lead to such conditions among children.', 'Organisers of the camp claimed that around 2,50,000 children across the country were found to have heart-related problems a year, and that 95% of them were not getting proper treatment.', 'The Indian Academy of Paediatrics too has cited heart disease as a major cause for the death of children in Kerala. Though timely diagnosis and surgeries could improve their condition, most parents are not able to shore up money for the purpose. Several families are forced into debt trap because of the high cost of treatment, they added.', 'V. Damodaran, representative of Rotary International, one of the organisers, said that Gift of Life, their free heart surgery project, was launched in association with Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi, to help such children.', 'The diagnosis camp to be held at Government Model Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode, will cover children aged below 18 from Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Malappuram districts. When similar camps were held in Kochi in previous years, a majority of participants were found to be from Malabar, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Chaos in corporation council meeting
['The meeting of the Kozhikode Corporation council on Monday, the last before the Budget session, ended up in chaos with councillors of Opposition parties shouting at one another over two issues that had practically nothing to do with development.', 'The mayhem began after councillor K. Nirmala drew the council’s attention to the alleged lapse in the distribution of welfare pension in Panniyankara, her ward.', 'Leader of the Opposition P.M. Suresh Babu of the Congress conveyed his party’s objection to the council session on February 18 despite party leaders demanding its postponement.', 'The Youth Congress had called for a lighting hartal on that day following the murder of two of its workers in Kasaragod, allegedly by CPI(M) activists.', 'Though the council leaders of the Congress and the BJP had sought postponement of the session, it was held in accordance with the rule that one-third attendance was enough to conduct meetings in such situations.', 'On Monday, Mr. Suresh Babu pointed out that he had requested that the session be postponed on humanitarian grounds and the decisions of the session be cancelled. His statement that the Mayor may be considered as being supportive of the accused if he did not cancel the decisions irked the ruling front councillors who began an argument with the Opposition councillors which ended up in a UDF walkout.', 'Health officer R.S. Gopakumar said the issue was due to a corrupted server, and that tender proceedings for a back-up battery were on. He also pointed out practical problems in the system and disparity in fee levied at different offices. Mr. Gopakumar suggested that the system be unified with the main counter at the corporation head office and kiosks at the zonal offices. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran directed the Corporation Secretary to take the required steps.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Deploying unskilled volunteers risky’
['Taking no chances: According to TRACK, an NGO, local volunteers who jump into action when disasters strike lack experience in dealing with real-life situations.', 'Most local volunteers who jump into action during disaster outbreaks in the State lack proper exposure and training to deal with real-life situations, functionaries of a Kozhikode-based non-governmental organisation have claimed.', 'He pointed out that such volunteers should be trained properly before being deputed to disaster-hit areas.', 'Mr. Kumar said TRACK was planning to train 250 volunteers to be deployed during natural disasters in the district.', 'As many as five camps will be held to train volunteers by May. The first camp was held at Poonoor. Others will be held at Vadakara, Vazhakkad, Thottilpalam, and on the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society campus.', 'Details of volunteers will be handed over to the district administration so that it can be part of relief work along with personnel of the District Disaster Management Authority. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao will hand over certificates to 83 volunteers trained by TRACK at an event to be held in Kozhikode on February 26, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Two men held in Noida for raping woman
['Two men were arrested on Monday morning for allegedly raping a 35-year-old Agra-based woman in a flat inside a gated society in Greater Noida’s Kasna on February 23 night, the police said.', 'The woman was brought to Greater Noida by one of the accused who was her acquiantance.', 'The accused allegedly took the victim to a society in Kasna where they were joined by another man. Both the men then raped the woman.', 'The police said that the woman filed a complaint on Sunday in which she said she knew the accused who had lured her into sightseeing in Agra, but took her to Greater Noida instead.', 'Mr. Kumar also said that a case was registered under IPC Sections 376 D (punishment for gang rape) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) based on the victim’s complaint.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Women’s panel issues notice to Delhi police over safety in east Delhi park
['The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued notice to the Delhi Police after it found anti-social activities taking place in a park in East Delhi, on the second day of the 13-day padyatra launched on Sunday.', 'The women’s commission, in the notice issued, sought information from the police pertaining to the steps taken by the force to ensure proper law and order within and outside the park.', 'Further, the police have been directed to inform the commission about the steps undertaken by the force to ensure that anti-social activities are prevented in the park.', 'Additionally, a separate notice was issued to the Delhi Police over “large scale sale of alcohol and drugs openly” in East Azad Nagar.', 'The “Mahila Suraksha Padyatra” launched by the DCW aims to create awareness on security and safety of women in the Capital. Over the next two days, the march will move towards north east Delhi and Delhi University.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Police zero in on suspects in attack on Congress office
['Four persons suspected of involvement in the attack on the office of the Indian National Congress at Ayanchery near Vadakara in the district on Sunday have been caught on surveillance cameras.', 'An investigation team from the Vadakara police station said the visuals would be examined soon to identify the four.', 'Police sources said two of the four-member gang, who allegedly set the building afire, had their faces covered. The other two will be identified soon, they added.', 'Meanwhile, Congress leaders in the area alleged that the attack was carried out by CPI(M) activists. They also claimed that protests by Congress workers subsequent to the Periya twin murder case had provoked a section of CPI (M) workers in the area.', 'On Sunday, a hartal was observed at Ayanchery protesting against the incident. Senior Congress leaders, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, had flayed the incident and demanded an investigation. They also accused CPI(M) workers of triggering political unrest in the area for unknown reasons.', 'The police said the attack on the office was the continuation of a clash between Congress and CPI(M)workers in the area. The building was allegedly set afire around 3 a.m. on Sunday.', 'Recently, Congress and CPI(M) workers had locked horns over the removal of campaign boards in Vadakara, they added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


MVD control room for radar cameras all set for opening
['The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will commission its second State-level control room for monitoring and initiating action on the basis of live feeds from radar surveillance cameras in the city on March 5.', 'Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will open the facility, which will be initially monitoring feeds from various speed detection and red light violation cameras installed by the MVD on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch.', 'On completion of the pending repair and installation of additional surveillance cameras, the control room will also be able to handle live feeds from north Kerala districts. The new control room at Chevayur will be converted into a district-level unit.', 'Deputy Transport Commissioner K.M. Shaji said the control room would have facilities to constantly monitor as many as 37 cameras on the Wadakkanchery-Valayar stretch. Technicians from Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (KELTRON) will be in charge of monitoring camera feeds and issuing notices on behalf of the MVD, he added.', 'An automated heavy vehicle fitness testing centre is ready for opening at Chevayur, which will help the department speed up testing procedures. The unit is equipped with facilities to conduct up to seven tests in various phases on a vehicle. The highlight is that fitness certificates can be issued on the spot. The new mechanism will also put an end to the conventional practice of test-driving vehicles and manually inspecting engine parts.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


95-year-old dies day after getting FIR registered
['A 95-year-old man died on Sunday night, a day after he finally got his FIR registered against a BJP leader and four others from Tugalpur village of Knowledge park in Greater Noida for assaulting and conspiring against him in order to illegally obtain his property on January 14.', 'According to the police, Atar Singh died on Sunday night due to prolonged illness. He was cremated on Monday morning .', 'Atar, a resident of Tugalpur village in Greater Noida lived with his brother’s family. His wife died a few years after marriage. He had alleged in his FIR that he was cheated by a BJP leader Teja Gurjar, his younger brother Jay Singh and three others named Parvinder Nagar, Subodh Kumar and Shahabuddin from his village, who all misled him into giving his thumbprint on some papers to transfer his property to Parvinder Nagar.', 'His relatives had informed that he was operated on January 31 for a fracture of hip bone which he had received after being assaulted by the accused on January 14. Since then he had been bedridden. He took his last breath on Sunday night only after getting the FIR registered for which he had been waiting since last one month.', 'Ajay Singh, nephew of the victim said that his uncle died after fighting a battle during his last days. After his death, his family will continue to fight for the justice which he had sought, said Ajay.', 'The allegations were however denied by Mr. Gurjar, who has been a member of BJP since 1991. He said that the victim is known to him, but he didn’t cheat him. It was Atar and his family who cheated him and his brother by selling an already acquired land.', 'Meanwhile, police said that they had recorded the statement of Atar before his death.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Drunk man detained over hoax call
['A drunk man, who had made a call to the control room threatening to blow up the Prime Minister after getting into a fight with his landlord, was detained by the police, officers said on Monday. The call was received at 10.30 p.m. on Sunday from the man, who was a labourer.', 'The caller was detained and jointly interrogated by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell, the Intelligence Bureau and the local police, police said. He was let off after questioning as it was found to be a hoax call. He had liquor following a fight with his landlord and made the call as he was angry, police added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Four injured as bag with firecrackers explodes
['Four persons, including a senior citizen, sustained injuries after a bag full of firecrackers burst during a wedding celebration in Kanjhawala on Sunday night.', 'A senior police officer said that the injured have been identified as Dalbir (39), Kirpal (24), Ramesh (75) and Dhanu (55). While three of them have been discharged after treatment, Dhanu is undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital.', 'The officer said that the incident happened at Assistant Sub Inspector Rajendra’s sons’ wedding. “Both his sons got married on Sunday and during the procession, a few people were bursting firecrackers. One of the crackers dropped inside the bag filled with firecrackers and it burst,” he said.', 'The impact was such that a few windows of the house broke and four persons got injured. The injured were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, but are yet to make any arrests in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


State purpose of issuing LOC against Satish Sana: HC to CBI
['The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the CBI’s stand on whether a businessman against whom a look out circular (LOC) was issued in connection with a corruption case, involving meat exporter Moin Qureshi and the agency’s ex-director A.P. Singh, was required for further investigation.', 'Justice Najmi Waziri also asked the CBI to state the purpose of issuing an LOC against Satish Babu Sana, saying that there cannot be an open LOC like this and the agency has to disclose what it wants to do.', 'The High Court’s order came on a plea by Mr. Sana, seeking the quashing of an LOC issued against him despite the fact that he was appearing before the CBI every time he was summoned for questioning in the case.', 'The court directed Mr. Sana to place on record the details of his unencumbered assets and listed the case for hearing on February 28.', 'Mr. Sana, in his petition, has said that the FIR was lodged on February 17, 2017 and since then he has travelled abroad 15-16 times and returned to India each time.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


2 members of Guddu gang arrested
['The Delhi police arrested two robbers who were involved in 17 cases of robbery and snatching in Dwarka, the police said on Monday.', 'Police said they have arrested two active members of Guddu Gang namely Umesh and Vikky and recovered two country made pistols and four live cartridges from their possession.', 'DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said a police team was formed to prevent armed robberies in the area. . When the team was patrolling on Pankha Road in Bindapur, they noticed a sports bike with two riders without helmet. As they were rash driving, the patrolling team grew suspicious. The officers tried to stop the vehicle, but they attempted to escape. The team immediately overpowered them and one country made pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from their possession. During interrogation, they disclosed that they are members of Guddu Gang.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Transport, infrastructure sectors lagging behind
['The Delhi government’s transport and road infrastructure projects were lagging behind other departments like education and social welfare when it came to meeting targets set by the Outcome Budget 2018-2019, shows the status report presented in the Delhi Assembly on Monday.', 'While presenting the status report of the Outcome Budget 2018-2019 till December 31, 2018, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said most projects were on track but those that were off-track were “largely due to the fact that services are not under the elected government’s control”.', 'In the education sector, the government’s directorates of education, higher education and technical education managed to be on track on 74%, 86% and 79% respectively of their critical indicators.', 'The Directorate of Education (DoE) managed to fill 95% of total nursery seats and has added 301 schools that offer nursery classes in 2018-2019.', 'The report also showed that the target of having an average of 20 functional computers per school was not met.', 'The DoE surpassed its own targets when it came to Class X and Class XII results, with 69% and 90.64% students passing respectively as against targets of 60% and 89%.', 'However, the percentage of students scoring above 33% marks shows that in Class VI, VII and VIII only 46.6%, 53.58% and 57.19% got above 33% as against a target of 70%.', 'The Health Department was on track on 83% of its critical indicators at the end of December.', 'However, one of the government’s flagship projects, the Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics, was far from meeting its target of 530 clinics with only 189 functional.', 'The average number of patients per day per AAMC was 94 as opposed to the target of 130.', 'In terms of infrastructure, the report showed that the strengthening of the Public Works Department’s (PWD) roads that have a right of way less than 30 metres, for which an amount of ₹10,000 lakh had been allocated, could only be furthered by 10%.', 'The percentage of road stretches where construction was completed as per the deadline went from their status of 40% in 2017-2018 to 50% as opposed to the target of 100%.', 'There was zero progress in terms of street-scaping and beautification intended on 22 PWD roads.', 'Not even a single one of 150 LED screens that were to be installed has been materialised.', 'The repair and rehabilitation of bridges and flyovers, for which ₹2,500 lakh had been allocated was not taken up.', 'Meanwhile, the performance of Delhi government’s Transport Department was the lowest with 57% of the indicators being on track. Buses plied by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) saw the average daily ridership go down to 29.91 lakh from 31.03 lakh in 2017-2018.', 'The target was increasing it to 32.93 lakh. The per day earnings of DTC buses went down from ₹5,931 lakh to ₹5,846 lakh.', 'The Transport Department issued 35.38 lakh pollution under control (PUC) certificates up to December 31, 2018, against the target of 51 lakh during the financial year.', 'The number of challans issued by the department for not having valid PUCs during the period was 24,171 as compared to the target of 29,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Only 4 lakh names deleted while updating electoral list, says CEO
['Refuting the allegations of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that over 30 lakh names were deleted from Delhi’s electoral rolls, the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) filed a reply in a court on Monday stating that only 4 lakh voters’ names were deleted while updating the list.', 'Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Samar Vishal took cognisance of the defamation complaint filed against Mr. Kejriwal and others by BJP leader Rajeev Babbar at North Avenue police station.', 'Electoral officer Manoj Kumar, who was representing the CEO of Delhi, submitted his reply in the Patiala House Courts against the claims made by Mr. Kejriwal.', 'The CEO said he has brought the summoned record relating to the procedure of addition and deletion of electors in the electoral rolls pertaining to Assembly constituencies of Delhi.', 'Between January 10, 2018, and January 18, 2019, a total of 2,88,140 names were added, and during the same period 4,07,715 names were deleted.', 'The total numbers of voters in the NCT of Delhi, as per the final roll published on January 18, 2019, is 1,36,95,291 and at the time of final publication on January 10, 2018, the number was 1,38,14,866.', 'The ACMM added that further examination of complainant witness has been deferred.', 'On December 6 last year, Mr. Kejriwal had tweeted: “Not 40k. Total 30 lakh votes deleted. 4 lakh baniyas, 8 lakh muslims, 15 lakh poorvanchalis and 3 lakh rest [sic].” During his campaign, the Chief Minister had accused the BJP of getting the names deleted.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Three of gang involved in phone theft cases arrested
['The Delhi police have busted a gang who used to steal mobile phones from bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village in South Delhi , said the police on Monday.', 'DCP (South West) Devender Arya said three criminals of Sahid Gang identified as Wakas Shahid, Wasim and Naim were arrested by the Safdarjung Enclave Police.', 'Mr. Arya said they were getting numerous complaints of mobile thefts from various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village. A police team was formed to solve the cases. The team got a specific input that the suspects will come to Hauz Khas Village to target people. A vehicle checking was ordered and a car was intercepted in which four persons were sitting.', 'During interrogation, they disclosed that they used to visit various bars and pubs in Hauz Khas Village on Saturday and Sunday as the frequency of visitors on these days are higher than other days.', 'They target those who are heavily drunk. The accused used to carry a pin in their key rings for opening the SIM and after removal of SIM, they used to destroy it so that no one track them.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Flights diverted as rain lashes Capital
['Rain accompanied by strong winds lashed the city on Monday with some parts of the city experiencing hailstorm as well.', "The maximum temperature was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature settled at 9.2 degrees Celsius which was three degrees below the season's average. The rainfall however, likely to bring the minimum temperature up to 13 degrees Celsius and the maximum is likely to fall to 22.", 'As many as 11 Delhi-bound flights were diverted to Jaipur and Lucknow airports as a result, airport officials said here. “A total of 11 flights have been diverted due to bad weather that has created an air traffic congestion over Delhi airport this evening,” an airport official said.', 'The Met Department said interpretation of numerical model products, satellite information, radar information and analysis of current weather observations are indicating that adverse weather conditions would prevail over north-west India including Delhi-NCR till March 5.', 'The peak activity, the Met department, said will be on February 26 and February 27 and again on March 2 and March 3.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Priya Ramani gets bail in defamation case
['A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to journalist Priya Ramani in the defamation case filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar.', 'Since the offence is bailable in nature, Ms. Priya Ramani is admitted to bail subject to furnishing personal bond and surety bond in the sum of ₹10,000 each. Bail bonds furnished, considered and accepted,” the court said in its order.', 'Ms. Ramani moved an application for exemption from personal appearance, which was opposed by the counsel for Mr. Akbar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BJP to begin beneficiary outreach campaign today
['BJP leaders, including Union Ministers, will visit homes of beneficiaries of Modi government’s welfare schemes beginning on Tuesday.', 'They will light lamps at the homes and localitiesof the beneficiaries. BJP national president Amit Shah is slated reach a village in Uttar Pradesh that got electricity connection for the first time, by boat.', 'Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said the drive would be conducted from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 83 location across the Capital.', 'Union Minister Harsh Vardhan will participate at the Keshavpuram district, Vijay Goel at Chandni Chowk and Sadar Bazar, Mr. Tiwari will participate in the programme at Khajuri Chowk.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DoT writes to police over ‘incendiary’ video by Mishra
['The Department of Telecommunications under Ministry of Communications has written a letter to the Delhi police on Monday over the circulation of an “incendiary” video by suspended AAP MLA Kapil Mishra on social media.', 'The letter written to Commissioner of Delhi Police by Ashish Joshi, controller communication, reads that one Kapil Mishra has circulated a “highly incendiary” video provoking people to attack some citizens.', 'Mr. Joshi said he had seen the video on Twitter, which was also uploaded on YouTube.', 'The link of video shared on social media by Mr. Mishra was also mentioned in the complaint.', 'The content of the video is self-explanatory and violates the Indian Penal Code and IT Act. The letter has been issued in public interest.', 'The letter has also been marked to Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Vigilance).', 'Delhi police spokesperson Madhur Verma said they have not received any complaint letter in this regard. The necessary action will be taken after receiving a copy of the complaint, he added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DUTA protests ‘crisis’ in university
['Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) organised a human chain on Monday at the Arts Faculty to highlight the “crisis” in the university. The participants blamed the DU Vice-Chancellor and the MHRD for creating such a situation. The protest was organised ahead of the call for a total strike to be observed between February 27 and March 1.', 'Teachers who participated said that they felt that there was a nexus between the university administration and the MHRD to ensure that the issues remain unresolved as part of the government’s agenda to withdraw funding from higher education.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Case registered on ECI’s plaint on fake news
['The Delhi police have registered a case in connection with fake news regarding online voting of NRIs being circulated online. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has submitted a complaint on Friday.', 'The police said that a case under Sections 505 (1) (b) (with intent to cause fear/alarm to public), 463 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper Use) Act, 2005 has been registered. The case will be investigated by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police.', 'On Friday, the ECI had given a written complaint stating that a WhatsApp message is doing the rounds and it reads: “Those who hold Indian passport can now vote online for 2019 elections. Please register yourself... There is a link... Enroll as NRI voter”. In the complaint, the ECI wrote that the message regarding online voting by NRIs is fake.', 'Earlier this month, a youth from Ranchi was arrested for allegedly sharing a fake schedule of General Elections on his website.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


IIT-D joins hands with UK body to work towards water security
['IIT-Delhi on Monday said it has entered a £20-million international collaboration with UK Research and Innovation to develop new approaches to tackle challenges and barriers to water security and sustainable development.', 'The project is funded by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) through the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). And the new UKRI GCRF Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub is one of the 12 hubs being set up to tackle some of the greatest challenges facing today’s society.', 'Starting in March 2019, the Newcastle University-led GCRF Water Security Hub will run for five years and will bring together research partners from Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, School of Planning and Architecture Delhi and institutes from Colombia, Ethiopia, Malaysia, UK, and the International Water Management Institute.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


CM’s hunger strike to seek support for statehood: Rai
['Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s indefinite hunger strike from March 1 is aimed at gathering support for AAP’s campaign for Delhi’s statehood and not for any action by the Centre, said AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai on Monday.', 'On Monday, Mr. Rai said Mr. Kejriwal would carry out his hunger strike to “organise” Delhiites in support of the demand for statehood.', 'The AAP national convener had announced while speaking in the Delhi Assembly on February 23 that he would start an indefinite hunger strike to push for the status of a full state for Delhi. He had said AAP would also launch a “movement” for the same.', 'Mr. Rai also wrote to Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari and Delhi Congress president Sheila Dikshit to ask them about their parties’ stand on the issue of full statehood.', 'Mr. Rai said both the BJP and the Congress had supported the demand for statehood for Delhi in the past but were now opposed to it.', 'He asked the BJP and Congress leaders to answer whether becoming a full state would be beneficial for Delhi or not. When asked where Mr. Kejriwal’s dharna would take place, Mr. Rai said the location would be announced soon.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Tharoor gets permission to travel to Saudi Arabia
['A Delhi court on Monday allowed Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, accused in a case related to death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar, to travel to Saudi Arabia from February 28 to March 4 for attending a seminar.', 'Special CBI Judge Arun Bhardwaj permitted Mr. Tharoor noting that he was given permission to travel abroad earlier and had abided by the terms and conditions of the court. It also noted that another court had already given him permission to travel to UAE, Qatar and Bahrain.', 'He told the court that he has always abided by the terms and conditions and has never violated them in any manner.', 'However, Delhi Police opposed his plea saying that invites are to be cross-checked for their veracity by communicating with the organisers. It said the trial in Pushkar’s death case is in the initial stage and Tharoor has property and other interests abroad and may settle there to evade the trial.', 'The court had earlier adjourned to March 7 the hearing in the case against Mr. Tharoor. The court had on February 4 sent the case to Sessions Court for further proceedings since the offence under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC was triable by a sessions judge. Mr. Tharoor has been charged under Sections 498-A and 306 of the IPC, but has not been arrested in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Draft policy over enhancing ‘walkability’ gets DDA nod
['Outside Nehru Place metro station in the Capital.', 'The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Monday approved a draft policy to enhance “walkability” in the national capital.', 'The proposal was approved at the meeting chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal who is also the DDA Chairman. The draft policy will now be placed in the public domain to invite suggestions and comments from stakeholders.', 'The draft policy includes strengthening of existing pedestrian infrastructure in areas where it is inadequate and development in areas where it is not presently available, said a DDA official.', 'Seventeen sites have been identified by the urban body which will be taken up on a “pilot basis”.', 'The sites identified include the ITO junction, Delhi University (North and South Campuses), all ISBTs, Nehru Place, Bhikaji Cama Place, Lajpat Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Old and New Delhi Railway Stations, among others. Additionally, provision for “street furniture” like benches and other seating, garbage receptacles, signage providing information regarding directions and location of various public utilities, have been included in the draft policy.', 'Further, the urban body added that the area-level improvement and provision of pedestrian infrastructure in the draft policy was formulated by taking into account suggestions from the Delhi government, DMRC and the civic bodies.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Petition in High Court seeks screen doors at all metro stations
['The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, the city government and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on a petition to install screen doors on all metro station platforms to avoid incidents of commuters falling on the tracks.', 'A Bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice V.K. Rao was hearing a petition by Hussain Mueen Farooq, who claims to be a social activist.', 'The plea sought installation of screen doors on all station platforms to ensure people do not fall on the tracks, either by accident or deliberately to commit suicide.', 'A screen door is a continuous connected barrier preventing passengers from moving close to the edge of the platform. It opens only after the doors of the train open or simultaneously.', 'The petition said that screen doors on platforms are a feature of stations on the Airport Express line and some select stations on other lines.', 'The petition has also pointed out that since the beginning of operations in 2002, the DMRC did not have a single Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) as required under the Delhi Metro Railway (Operation And Maintenance) Act.', 'The primary function of the CMRS is to inspect the metro railway with a view to determine whether it is fit to be opened for carrying passengers.', 'The plea has also sought that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation submit a separate and detailed annual report about its operations before the Parliament.', 'The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on July 25.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


L-G directs authorities to dispose waste in a scientific manner
['Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal chairs a meeting on air pollution in the city, on Monday.', 'Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting on air pollution, focusing on waste dumping from construction and demolition works in nallahs and water bodies, here on Monday.', 'Mr. Baijal chaired the meeting, convened by EPCA Chairman Bhure Lal, focusing on the dumping of such waste in drains which chokes, stagnates and hinders their flow resulting in “severe environmental damage”.', 'According to the statement, Mr. Bhure further brought to Mr. Baijal’s notice that gases from such stagnating dirty water were “causing harm to human health” in addition to apprising him further that entire NCR region was “dotted by construction and demolition waste and plastic waste mountains” which were responsible for deterioration not only in the air quality but also adversely affect underground water quality. The meeting was also attended by Delhi Environment and Forest Minster Imran Hussain, Secretary, Environment, North Corporation Commissioner, EDMC Commissioner, DJB CEO and other senior officers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.', 'Septage disposal in drains, the statement said, was a “major threat to these natural drains” and Mr. Baijal was informed that the Department had gotten a study conducted from Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) regarding the usage of dredged soil or silt removed from drains.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Submit compliance report on restoration of waterbodies: NGT
['The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana government to furnish a compliance report on the protection of over 1,200 waterbodies in the State within three weeks.', 'Earlier, the green panel had directed the State government to assign unique identification numbers to the 123 waterbodies in Gurugram and Faridabad within three months.', 'The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority was directed to undertake the process of identification and restoration of waterbodies that are under the State government’s possession.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Outcome budget lacks transparency, says BJP
['Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Vijender Gupta on Monday alleged that the outcome budget presented by the Delhi government was “driven by narrow political considerations”.', 'Mr. Gupta alleged that there was “no impartial and independent assessment” conducted by an outside agency in relation to the exercise which, he argued, “lacked trust, honesty and transparency”.', 'He said that while the energy sector spent 0.82%, tourism spent 0.7%, Food and civil supplies 13.89% and housing 10.22%. “It shows the ‘efficiency’ of the government which it sought to hide,” Mr. Gupta added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Appointment of notaries: govt pulled up for delay
['The Delhi High Court on Monday pulled up the city government for delaying the appointment of notaries due to which the people were suffering as they were not able to avail of facilities for which notarised affidavits were required.', 'A Bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice V.K. Rao directed the Delhi government to notify the notaries who have been approved for appointment within 10 days, failing which coercive action would be taken by the court against the officials concerned.', 'The High Court listed the case for further hearing on March 14.', 'Notaries are persons licensed by the government to witness signatures on documents.', 'The High Court had in February last year directed the government to take prompt steps to rectify the problem.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


L-G running ‘circus’ of transfer, posting of officers, says Sisodia
['Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia at Vidhan Sabha in New Delhi on Monday.', 'Presenting the “report card of not just the Lieutenant-Governor but Prime Minister Narendra Modi too”, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told the Delhi Assembly on Monday that Raj Niwas was “running a circus of transfer and posting of officers” since it controlled services.', 'Mr. Sisidia, also the Finance Minister, presented the status report of the Delhi government’s Outcome Budget 2018-2019 in the House on Monday.', 'He then like last year gave the House the “report card” of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal as well.', 'He said the L-G had “shuffled officers like a pack of playing cards”.', 'The Minister said there had been seven Principal Secretaries of the Environment Department in the past two-and-a-half years. Similarly, the Urban Development Department had seen eight Principal Secretaries, he said.', 'He added that a large number of vacancies in the government were not being filled by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB), which answers to the L-G and not the elected government.', 'The AAP government and the Centre have been fighting a legal battle over who controls services in Delhi since the Centre put out a notification in May 2015 saying that services would also be under its control, in addition to law and order, police and land.', 'A two-judge Bench of the Supreme Court hearing the matter had sent the issue to a three-judge Bench on February 14.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


EDMC condemns CM’s hunger strike plan
['A resolution condemning Chief Minister Arvind Kejirwal’s plan to go on an indefinite hunger strike to demand full statehood for Delhi was passed on Monday in a House meeting of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), amid protests by AAP councillors.', 'The resolution stated that the government was trying to mislead the ‘innocent’ public with a political stunt. In this regard, it made note of the recent Supreme Court judgment, which had clarified the distribution of powers between the State government and the L-G, that it said, AAP was violating.', 'Denouncing the move, it also said that Mr. Kejirwal “did not have a right” to go on a hunger strike when he had not used the powers available to him to fulfil various promises made by the government.', 'As the motion was being passed, AAP councillors raised slogans, while the ones sitting in the well of the House protested suspension of councillors. Other AAP councillors raised slogans for Statehood outside the EDMC’s headquarters in Patparganj.', 'The house meeting also witnessed heavy police presence following scuffles in the previous House meeting, when the Mayor had called the police to have sloganeering councillors removed from the premises.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Cong poll campaign will be based on truth: Dikshit
['DPCC president Sheila Dikshit on Monday said that the Delhi Congress’ election campaign will be based on truth and honesty, and will expose the lies of the Aam Aadmi Pary and the hollow promises of the BJP.', 'She appealed to the Congress workers to mount an aggressive campaign to defeat the BJP in the Lok Sabha elections by baring before the people the lies and hollow promises of the BJP and the AAP governments.', 'Ms. Dikshit was speaking after a meeting of the Election Campaign Committee of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee for Lok Sabha election.', 'At the meeting, Ms. Dikshit said that the campaign committee for the Lok Sabha elections will also be constituted at the District and Assembly levels so that more and more Congress workers would be associated with the campaign committees to raise local issues and connect with the problems of the common people.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Properties sealed in north Delhi
['Up to 13 properties in Civil Lines zone were sealed for ‘misuse’ by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation following orders of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, the civic body said on Monday.', 'While five properties were sealed in Malka Ganj on Monday, eight properties in Vijay Nagar were sealed on February 22. The properties were sealed with help of the police for misuse “in the shape of commercial activities carried out in violation of the provisions of the lease deed”, the corporation said. Sealing was undertaken on ground floors of all the properties. The corporation also said that action could not be taken on remaining properties in the area due to alleged resistance from local leaders, residents and the municipal councillor in the area.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


DDA to launch housing scheme next month
['The Delhi Development Authority will launch the Housing Scheme 2019 by March, with over 10,000 flats on offer, said a senior DDA official on Monday.', 'The online applications for the housing scheme will begin by March 15, said the official.', 'Under this year’s scheme, over 900 EWS (economically weaker section) flats are on offer in Narela apart from 8,383 LIG (low-income group) flats in Narela and Vasant Kunj and over 570 MIG (middle-income group) flats in Vasant Kunj.', 'Additionally, 448 HIG (higher-income group) flats will be offered in Vasant Kunj, under the 2019 scheme. All the flats are newly constructed, said the official.', 'Concession for allottees of one-bedroom flats in Dwarka, Rohini, Narela and Siraspur was also approved at the meeting chaired by Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDA Chairman.', 'A proposal to permit allottees of one-bedroom flats in Rohini, Narela, Siraspur and Ramgarh Colony, to apply for adjoining vacant flats, was also placed at the meeting.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Two arrested for reporting false cases in Greater Noida
['Two persons were arrested in Greater Noida on Monday for allegedly reporting false cases of car robbery and kidnapping at police emergency number 100, officials said.', 'In the first incident, the accused, identified as Pankaj, informed the police on February 23 about a car robbery, but investigations later revealed that he had lied about the incident, the police said.', 'In the other incident, the accused, identified as Ajay Kumar, on Sunday gave a tip-off to the police about an abduction, but his claim too turned out to be false, a police officer said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Municipal corporations violated procedures during sealing’
['The report of the Assembly’s House Committee on municipal corporations in Delhi, tabled on Monday, stated that the civic bodies have “blatantly violated” directions of the Supreme Court while undertaking sealing of properties under the directions of the court-appointed monitoring committee.', 'The report states that in a majority of cases, no video was recorded by the corporations during surveying or sealing of the premises that were allegedly indulging in misuse. It also said that the stipulations contained in the public notice issued by the Delhi Development Authority in November last year regarding sealing procedures were also not followed in totality and officials of the corporations had carried out sealing of the premises in “an arbitrary manner”.', 'The report also made adverse observations with regard to conversion and parking charges collected by the corporations. The committee has alleged misuse of these charges by the corporations.', 'In its observations, it stated that the local bodies had not provided complete Assembly constituency-wise or market-wise date in the form desired, further stating that “it appears that there is a misuse of conversion/parking charges thus collected and any event of fraud in this regard cannot be ruled out in the absence of information desired.” The committee has recommended that the corporations should recoup “illegal expenditure” of revenue collected on account of conversion and parking charges for other purposes and use this amount for augmenting infrastructure and development of parking sites.', 'It also noted that the South and the East Delhi Municipal Corporations have not received conversion charges collected for their jurisdiction between 2006-2012, prior to the trifurcation of the corporation, from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency. In this regard, the committee has recommended that the north corporation retrieve and proportionately distribute the amount of conversion and parking charge collected during the unified period to the respective corporations and submit an action taken report within a month.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A run that helps raise funds for rare diseases
['No holds barred: Several participants took part enthusiastically on Sunday.', 'Persons with rare diseases, their parents and care-givers participated in a 7-km run from Olcot School in Besant Nagar on Sunday under the initiative of ‘Race For 7’ championed by Organization for Rare Diseases India (ORDI).', 'Former IAS officer Santha Sheela Nair flagged off the run and joined the runners to raise funds for the cause. S. Suresh, honorary secretary, Voluntary Health Services Chennai, A.T. Arasar Seeralar, Director, Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children and actor Babloo Prithiveeraj were present.', 'Race for 7 symbolically represents 7,000 rare diseases with the 7 km representing the average number of years it takes to diagnose such diseases.', 'It is held in February to commemorate the World Rare Disease Day, which falls on the last day of the month. The theme for Rare Disease Day 2019 is ‘Bridging health and social care’.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


Two electric buses run out of charge on Day 1
['Two of the 10 long-distance AC electric buses launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Monday ran out of charge, at Cherthala and at Vyttila in Ernakulam, on their maiden service between Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam.', 'The stranded passengers were taken to their destinations in other buses. Senior KSRTC officials blamed it on the technical wing’s ineptitude in readying charging points at Haripad and Ernakulam. Interestingly, the points were readied by Monday evening, leaving everyone guessing why they were not kept ready at least a day earlier.', 'The buses can operate up to 250 km after being charged for three-and-a-half hours. The officials concerned should have readied the two charging points en route or arranged to swap batteries with fully-charged ones. They should also have kept in mind that traffic snarls at towns en route and at bottlenecked Alappuzha on Monday would further drain the batteries. “The electric buses that were introduced to drive home the point of curtailing operational expenses and causing zero emission ended up making a further dent in our image,” said KSRTC officials.', 'Another senior official said the two buses ran out of charge probably since they were manned by new drivers who were not well versed with electric buses. The other eight buses operated as per schedule and reached the charging point at Aluva from Thiruvananthapuram, without any snag. From Tuesday, all buses will take a 15-minute tea break at Cherthala, during which time they will be recharged.', 'Elaborating on the cost savings and environmental benefits of electric buses over diesel buses, KSRTC sources said the per km cost works to approximately ₹49 per km. This covers the cost of each bus, maintenance expenses and salary of the driver provided by the private firm that has supplied the buses. The KSRTC has to provide electricity and services of the conductor.', 'In comparison, the cost of operating a diesel AC bus owned by KSRTC is over ₹70 per km. Unlike AC diesel buses with rear engine, electric buses are very silent, they added.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Impact-based forecasting more precise’
['Impact-based forecasting is the next step in weather prediction services.', 'India Meteorological Department (IMD) has started incorporating more details of damage that could occur in a region during the landfall of a cyclone. “This is the first step towards providing impact-based forecast,” said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai.', 'He was speaking on the measures being taken to improve predictions on the sidelines of a ‘Seminar on Monsoons 2018’ held on Monday. “Efforts are on as part of the Monsoon Mission of India, a project of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. For instance, we could provide forecast on various factors such as the kind of impact of a wind blowing at a particular speed in exact locations or areas likely to be inundated with improved accuracy in ensemble predictions and observational network,” he said. The Monsoon Mission of India was aimed at improving monsoon prediction through high resolution models.', 'He earlier elaborated on aspects of Northeast monsoon in 2018 that had four cyclones, factors that delayed onset of monsoon and cyclone Gaja and Pethai. Cyclones Titli and Luban took away the moisture from the region and that led to drastic reduction in rainfall over Tamil Nadu, he noted.', 'Moreover, clustering of tropical cyclones occurred simultaneously in the northern hemisphere. Global weather parameters were also not much conducive for a normal monsoon, he added.', 'N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, spoke on the aspects of Southwest monsoon 2018 and factors that contributed to early onset. Cyclones Titli and Luban delayed withdrawal of the monsoon in the region. B. Arul Malar Kannan, Scientist in-charge of Doppler Weather Radar facility, Chennai spoke on challenges in tracking cyclones in 2018.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Budget papers reveal dip in civic body’s revenue
['The budget papers of the Kochi Corporation reveal there is a considerable dip in revenue. While building tax collection was expected to be ₹96 crore during 2017-18, the actual collection was only ₹79 crore. Profession tax collection was expected to be ₹56 crore, but the collection was only ₹31 crore.', 'The collection of building tax and profession tax during the current financial year will be known only when the budget papers are presented next year. The target for the collection of building tax is ₹85 crore and professional tax ₹31 crore.', 'The discussions on the budget for the upcoming financial saw the ruling councillors and the Opposition engaged in a war of words. While Deputy Mayor T.J. Vinod claimed the budget to be a development oriented one, the Opposition called it “hollow” and “lacking a sense of reality”.', 'The Opposition also claimed that there was a lack of clarity in the budget papers and that the Deputy Mayor was blind to the problem of frequent fires at the Brahmapuram waste treatment site. However, the ruling councillors said the Corporation had become more people-friendly as it did not intend to impose more tax on people in the wake of the floods in the State last year.', 'The Opposition also criticised the ruling front for the absence of officials during the budget discussions on Monday. The absence of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary during the discussions was a violation of the rules, the Opposition claimed. Mayor Soumini Jain argued that the officials did not stay away from the discussions on purpose and were away on duties at the Brahmapuram site.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Doubts cast over EVMs unfortunate’
['He said it was unfortunate that doubts are cast over EVMs. “The trend I am seeing is that those who win immediately take out a victory procession. But some who lose, cast doubts. This has gained currency in recent times. But this issue, one way or the other, has gone to high courts at different times. The EVMs were used comprehensively in 2004. But even before, when they were used selectively, people have approached high courts. Until now, all high courts have stood by the machine. And now the matter is in the Supreme Court," said Mr. Chawla.', 'Mr. Gandhi said that the voters have confidence in the machine and the woman/man who is monitoring and operating the machine. “Nobody in India is going to doubt that the election machinery is going to do any manipulation,” he said. Mr. Chawla also said that India should think about public funding for elections.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Fire safety dept. for demolition of godown
['The Fire and Safety Department will recommend the demolition of the six-storey footwear godown near the Ernakulam Junction (South) railway station that was gutted in a major fire last week.', 'A recommendation to that effect citing structural instability will be part of the report that the department is likely to submit to the District Collector on Tuesday. The report will also list out the alleged violations that led to the incident in the heart of the city.', 'He said while the Fire and Safety Department had issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) for shop-cum-residence occupancy to the building in 2006, the owners had changed the occupancy status to godown despite the fact that godowns were not permissible at such a height. Besides, material far exceeding the capacity of the building were stored inside, he added.', 'However, senior officials with the Public Works Department (PWD) said the department had not yet been asked to inspect the building.', 'Meanwhile, the Electrical Inspectorate Department has set in motion a process to carry out a detailed investigation into the incident after a preliminary inspection of the site held last Friday. A deputy assistant electrical inspector has been entrusted with the inquiry.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


TNSCB helps resettled families acquire skill training
['Future-ready: M.S. Shanmugam, TNSCB managing director, handing over a tool kit to a beneficiary.', 'To ensure a decent livelihood for residents of Kakanji Nagar, who were evicted and resettled in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements at Athipattu, the board has come up with a slew of measures including skill training and distribution of tool kits for setting up their own business. It also plans to hold a job fair soon.', 'Over 1,500 families, who were living on the Chennai Metrowater lines in Kakkanji Nagar on New Avadi Road, were evicted last year.', 'In a bid to ensure that their livelihood is not affected, the TNSCB, through its Community Development Wing, imparted training to 950 individuals in different skills including tailoring, driving, painting, beautician course among others before they were shifted, officials said.', 'M.S. Shanmugam, TNSCB managing director, recently distributed tool kits to those who underwent the training. One such beneficiary is 18-year-old M. Sneha. “I have to work and meet the expenses in my house. I was initially thinking of going for work. But I underwent the three-month beautician course. I now plan to start my own centre,” she said.', 'A. Satish, another beneficiary, is an M.Com Second Year student at Pachaiyappa’s College. He got a driving licence with the help of the TNSCB. “As of now I work part-time as a pizza delivery boy to meet my educational expenses. With the driving licence, I will now drive call-taxi at nights and in due course purchase my own car,” he said. The TNSCB also plans to help residents get bank loans to start their own business.', 'A job fair will also be organised in Athipattu after the Lok Sabha elections are over. Around 250 youngsters/job seekers are expected to benefit.', 'Meanwhile, Vanessa Peter, policy researcher, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), called for uniformity in executing the Resettlement and Rehabilitation programmes. “They are executed without a concrete policy and are discriminatory in nature.” she said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Fire at waste plant not accidental, says Dathan
['The recent fire that broke out at Kochi Corporation’s waste dumping site at Brahmapuram was not accidental, M.C. Dathan, Scientific Adviser to the Chief Minister, has said.', 'Inaugurating a five-day training programme on ‘Road Safety Engineering Measures’ organised by National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) in association with the Asian Institute of Transport Development for Ministry of Road Transport and Highways here on Monday, Dr. Dathan said the fire on Friday at Brahmapuram was a move to sabotage the government’s proposal to build a modern solid waste treatment plant to solve the garbage issue.', 'The fire was man-made as it reportedly originated at several places in the dump yard, he said, adding that vested interests working against the setting up of the modern plant was behind the incident.', 'The scientific adviser also criticised the media for laying more emphasis on negative news and sidelining development initiatives. “There is no solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram at present as being reported. It is a yard for dumping waste collected by the Corporation,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Sleep deprivation in children rising’
['When the situation became difficult to manage, Shyamala took a break from work, and later, switched to a job that enabled her to reach home and put her daughter to bed early.', 'Many children were not getting adequate sleep nowadays, observed S. Balasubramanian, medical director of Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital.', 'In his two decades of practice, P. Ramkumar, senior consultant, paediatrician, has been noticing the drastic reduction in sleeping hours for children.', 'But more than the medical causes, it is screen time — television, cell phone, video games and laptop — that is decreasing the sleeping time, he added.', 'Koushik Muthuraja, consultant, pulmonologist and sleep specialist, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, said children should ideally sleep for eight hours.', 'Irritability, generalised tiredness, lack of concentration, lack of memory and mood changes occur due to lack of adequate sleep, he observed.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


PCB to test ash from Brahmapuram for heavy metal presence
['The KSPCB is looking into how far the fire has infiltrated into the almost five-metre deep waste heaps at the plant as the generation of methane gas could keep the waste piles simmering.', 'Though the fire and the resultant smoke at the Kochi Corporation’s solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram have been brought under control, the potential heavy metal presence in the ash deposits threatens to pollute the atmosphere and endanger public health.', 'The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) will collect samples of ash from the site on Tuesday for testing them for the presence of hazardous and toxic components such as dioxins, furan and heavy metals.', 'Attempts to collect samples on Monday failed, as the constant churning of the site using excavators pressed the ash further down into the heaps.', 'The agency is also looking into how far the fire has infiltrated into the almost five-metre deep waste heaps at the plant as the generation of methane gas could keep the waste piles simmering.', 'Meanwhile, the ambient air monitoring readings from the two centres of the KSPCB at Vyttila and Ambalamugal have found the presence of particulate matter to be more than three times the threshold levels.', 'The readings at 7.30 a.m. on Monday put particulate matter of 2.50-microgram size, capable of infiltrating directly into the lungs and causing health complications, to be 191 at Vyttila as against the threshold level of 60.', 'He said he kept receiving calls from residents at Infopark, Rajagiri and Irumpanam, complaining about the unease caused by the smog up until 1.30 a.m. on Monday.', 'The KSPCB fears that the Corporation’s suspension of waste collection in the wake of the fire may lead to fresh challenges as waste might get dumped at various points.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Rama Rao takes over as Municipal Commissioner
['M. Rama Rao taking charge as the Municipal Commissioner in Vijayawada on Monday.', 'Senior IAS officer M. Rama Rao took charge as the Commissioner of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation succeeding J. Nivas here on Monday.', 'Mr. Rama Rao, a 2005 batch officer of the State Civil Services cadre, earlier served as the Collector of Srikakulam district. He is the 23rd Municipal Commissioner of the civic body.', 'Speaking to reporters after assuming the office, Mr. Rama Rao said that he would primarily focus on sanitation and public health in the city.', 'He asked the civic staff to adopt the policy of talk less and work more for better results.', 'Mr. Rao stressed the need for teamwork, putting to use the best of the resources available.', 'Additional Commissioner D. Chandra Sekhar, Deputy Mayor G. Venkataramana Rao and others welcomed the Commissioner.', 'He later formally met Mayor Koneru Sreedhar.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


KWA Aruvikkara plant to have solar power units
['Rooftop solar power units will be installed atop Kerala Water Authority (KWA) facilities at Aruvikkara as part of the government-run water utility’s plan to turn sunward to slash soaring electricity bills.', 'Solar panels will be installed atop the water purification plants, the recently-completed packaged drinking water unit and other buildings, KWA officials said.', 'A combined rooftop area of 2,000 sq metres is proposed to be covered in Aruvikkara. The 75 MLD (million litres a day) purification plant that is being constructed under the Amrut scheme also will sport the solar units.', 'While the major power-guzzling activity at the KWA facilities - pumping of water - will still depend on the KSEB grid, electricity requirement for operating lights, fans and meeting office requirements will switch over to solar power.', 'Inability to make electricity bill payments on time had transformed KWA into KSEB’s single biggest defaulter. At present, the monthly electricity bill of the KWA runs into a whopping ₹23 crore, more than half its monthly revenue.', 'Recently, the Water Resources Department had announced plans to install solar power units on its own land and that of the Irrigation Department in a bid to cut down dependence on KSEB.', 'On the other hand, KWA is owed ₹300 crore by its own consumers in water bill arrears.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Work of overpass at Muttathara hit
['Work on the overpass along the Kazhakuttam-Karode NH 66 bypass at Muttathara has been hit over the demand by a section of local residents for hassle-free connectivity from the Perunelli-Balavan Nagar Road.', 'The locals are demanding an underpass beneath the upcoming overpass from the Balvaan Nagar Road for smooth passage of the pedestrians and other road users to service road and to Enchakkal side.', 'Following the row over the connectivity, the work on the Kovalam side of the underpass had come to a standstill.', 'The EPC contractor who is executing the Reach I of the bypass upto Mukkola for National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has completed the work of overpass on Eenchakkal side and has given black topping.', 'The NHAI authorities said they cannot succumb to the demands of the local residents as those coming from Balavan Nagar Road can enter the bypass at the end of the overpass, 150 metres away.', 'Similarly, those coming via the bypass through the overpass can make exit at this point and move via service road to Balavan Nagar.', 'The 7.5 metre wide service road is also a two-lane and road users can use it. We can go only as per norms. The work has been stopped by the EPC contractor since January,” the NHAI official said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Cleaning drive of Killi river from today
['The massive one-day cleaning programme as part of the first phase of the city Corporation’s Save Killi River City Mission will be held on Tuesday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.', 'As part of the programme, the 13.5 km stretch of the river that passes through the city, from Vazhayila to Kalladimukham will be cleaned up. As many as 25,000 volunteers are expected to participate in the cleaning drive.', 'Under the Killi River City Mission, 18 ward level organising committees and 67 local implementation committees are functioning.', 'All the sanitation workers of the Corporation as well as officials of the health wing will be part of the cleaning drive.', 'Representatives of various political parties, workers’ unions, residents’ associations, Kudumbashree workers, MGNREGS workers, students, youth organisations, Government employees, NSS volunteers, green army volunteers and others from all walks of life will be part of the drive.', 'A technical committee oversees their functioning. Ministers and MLAs will inaugurate the cleaning campaign at fifteen different locations simultaneously. At Killipalam, Minister for Local Self Governments A.C.Moideen will inaugurate the cleaning campaign, in the presence of Mayor V.K.Prasanth and Standing Committee Chairpersons.', 'Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the clean-up drive near the Maruthunkuzhy bridge. Deputy Speaker V.Sasi will inaugurate it near the Jagathy ground.', 'The other locations are Attukal Padasseri bridge, near Mannammoola, Muttakkadavu in Poojappura, near Manikandeswaram birdge in Nettayam, Thozhuvankodu bridge, Kalady, Aarannur, Kalladimukham, Pangode, Thuruthummoola, Valiyasala and Kaduvettiana in Kowdiar.', 'The city Corporation and the Killi River City Mission will arrange breakfast for those participating in the cleaning. Students from 51 schools will offer ‘Pothichoru’ as lunch to them.', 'After the cleaning drive, a Killi River Master Plan is proposed to be prepared to chalk out the programmes to revive the river and for continued conservation.', 'This Master Plan is proposed to be incorporated into the city’s development plan with an emphasis laid on city’s natural resources.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


The long road to the voting booth
['Women voters may hold the key to the 2019 Lok Sabha election outcome, reckon some psephologists. A 100 years ago, however, a slow and tenuous battle was under way to secure women’s voting rights. As this report in The Hindu on February 26, 1919, indicates, the arguments against allowing adult women voting rights a century ago were similar — whether they were made in the House of Commons or the Bombay Corporation. “The practice of ‘purdah’ for women in some communities makes it inconvenient, women leaving ‘legitimate’ activities would be disastrous for society, and, who will rock the cradle if women join the corporation...” That India was one of the first few countries in the world to embrace universal suffrage, ahead of many developed countries, speaks volumes of the tenacity and determination of its women. The Bombay and Madras provinces were the first to grant Indian women a limited franchise in 1921 (seven provinces followed suit over the next decade).Today, Mumbai is considered one of the safest and most empowering cities for women in the country.', 'Bombay Corporation.', 'Women Franchise.', 'In the course of the discussion on the subject of women franchise, which the Bombay Corporation voted against, Mr. Jehangir Petit speaking on the propositions admitted the intellectual fitness of women but thought that the time for such a step had not arrived and it would be disastrous to the society and humanity if women left their legitimate sphere of activity and entered harder walks of life.', 'Mr. J.A. Wadya was in entire sympathy with the proposition. He refuted the argument advanced by Dr. Sukhia that ladies of certain communities observed purdah and therefore they, as a class, should be debarred, and said those who wanted to take their share in civic life should not be debarred from doing so. Continuing he said that the other Parsi Corporator, Mr. Dhondy had asked that if Mrs. Dhondy became a member of the Corporation, was he to remain at home and rock the cradle?', 'Mr. Wadia said if Mrs. Dhondy were better qualified to be a Corporator then the proper course for her was to come there and sit in the Corporation and for Mr. Dhondy to stay at home and rock the cradle. He thought the opposition to the proposal was merely the result of prejudice of men against women. If ladies did come to the Corporation there would be more dignity and sober criticism than at present.', 'Mr. J.P. Orr thought there were many English women in Bombay willing to serve on the Corporation. Votes were then taken, which resulted in the propositions as also the amendments on them being lost.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


English language expo celebrates Indian writers
['Students of Paramita High School here organised a unique expo on Monday to showcase a mosaic of components of English language to commemorate the endeavours of writers R.K. Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand and Raja Rao.', 'The two-day expo called ‘Coalesce on English Language’ was inaugurated by Paramita Educational Institutions chairman E. Prasada Rao, who interacted with the participants. The students showcased their talent in the history of English literature, vocabulary, grammar, idioms, tenses, phrases etc.', 'Through models and charts, they spoke about the contributions of the writer trio to English language works in the country. Day 2 of the expo is expected to attract students and teachers from other government and private schools in the town.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Hectic activity at Vizhinjam seaport site
['The construction site of the 3.1-km-long breakwater of the Vizhinjam international multi-purpose deepwater seaport project has become a beehive of activities with granite arriving to the project site by sea.', 'The shifting of granite from the vessel MB Propel, that arrived from Mundra port on Saturday night with 30,000 tonnes and is anchored off Vizhinjam, is in full swing.', 'Since Sunday morning, the ship gears (four cranes) are being used to shift granite from the vessel to the barge that has reached from Kollam port with 2,000 tonnes of granite for construction of the Vizhinjam breakwater. With the completion of the shifting of the 6,000 tonnes of granite that arrived in the flat top-barge Tianjin from Thoothukudi, it was also used from Monday to shift granite from the vessel.', 'The multi-port operator, Adani Vizhinjam Port Private Ltd (AVPPL), entrusted by the government with operating the international multi-purpose deepwater seaport project, has deployed earth movers to expedite the shifting of the granite.', 'Using two excavators, granite is being dumped into deep water contours to resume work on the remaining portion of the breakwater.', 'It will take seven days to complete the shifting of the granite from the vessel, sources in the Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd. (VISL) said here.', 'After unloading the granite, Tianjin and MB Propel will proceed to Thoothukudi, 30 hours from Vizhinjam, to ship granite again.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


BMC looks at VLTs to boost revenue
['The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now come out with a policy to make up for the loss of revenue it got through octroi.', 'Owners of certain plots, who decades ago got land across the city on a tenancy basis for a nominal rent, will now have to shell out 62.5% of ready reckoner rate.', 'The erstwhile Bombay Improvement Trust, and later BMC, owned hundreds of acres of land across the city which was given on temporary lease to private entities as part of its Vacant Land Tenancy (VLT) policy. The objective was to protect these plots from encroachment. The tenants would pay nominal rent as no construction was allowed on such plots and BMC could ask them to vacate it at 15 days’ notice. However, these plots either came to be encroached upon over the decades or BMC shifted its project affected people here due to lack of a policy. Even though the VLT practice was discontinued after 1971, it went on at least until the 1990s.', 'Many of these VLT plots are on prime locations and can be used for public amenities. BMC now plans to offer these plots on lease to the occupants at 62.5% of ready-reckoner rate. If the terms are not acceptable the plots will be leased to a new tenant for 30 years.', 'The city has 3,472 such plots of which, 610 prime plots can be leased out under the policy, as others are either reserved in development plan for amenities or are plots measuring 125 sq meters or less, which are excluded from the policy. Of the 610 plots, 470 plots have residential structures, 35 have commercial structures, 22 house private companies, one has housing for bank employees, four have petrol pumps, while 21 have religious structures.', 'The policy will be tabled at BMC’s improvement committee meeting on Wednesday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Privatisation of airport opposed
['The world class terminal of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport.', 'When the financial bids were opened in Delhi by the Airports Authority of India on Monday to select the private player for operating, managing and developing Thiruvananthapuram international airport for the next 50 years, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) observed ‘Deception Day’.', 'The CPI(M)-led LDF has announced that a march will be taken to the International airport on February 28, the day when the Letter of Award (LOA) will be handed over by the AAI to the concessionaire, Adani Group, which has emerged as the highest bidder for five non-metro airports.', 'The LDF is on an indefinite stir in front of the domestic terminal here against the move. CPI State Secretary Kanam Rajendran has alleged that the decision overlooking the claims of the State and flouting the rules and assurances given to the State is to help the corporates and part of the move to get financial favours from them for the forthcoming Lok Sabha elections.', 'The Action Council, headed by former Minister and CPI(M) leader M. Vijayakumar, formed to stave off the privatisation move and to retain the premier airport in the public sector is reportedly looking into seeking legal remedy. The Airports Authority Employees Union that is on an indefinite stir is also seeking legal remedy against handing over the airport.', 'Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has taken a tough stance against the privatisation of the AAI-managed airport and has hinted that the path will not be rosy for the concessionaire.', 'All eyes are on whether the government will handover the eight hectares of land from Vallakadavu area for the proposed integrated airport terminal as announced earlier.', 'The Vallakadavu-Vayyamoola Joint Action Council has announced that land cannot be surrendered in view of the Centre’s decision to handover the premier airport to a private player.', 'N. Vikaraman Nair, General Convenor of the council said they are hopeful that the government will not displace the residents again in the name of airport development.', 'The Federation of Residents Association Thiruvananthapuram (FRAT) Chairman, M. S. Venugopal and General Secretary, Pattom Sasidharan Nair has urged those opposing the privatisation to spell out the future plans for the development of the airport if it is retained in the public sector on the lines of CIAL and KIAL as desired by the State.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


CM hints at major overhaul of administration
['Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hinted at major overhaul of the administrative machinery in the coming days.', 'He said the government was checking leakages to ensure that the benefits of welfare and developmental programmes reached the needy. The State, which commenced its journey with huge uncertainties as well as crisis in the power sector five years ago, acquired thorough knowledge about its resources and needs and was hence, able to prioritise the needs of the people.', 'The government had accordingly decided to leverage the economy by spending on priority sectors like education for which over 11.2% of the budget was allocated. “There is a need to change the traditional ways of thinking,” Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said, stressing the need for imparting accountability at all levels. In the housing sector, for instance, the government was contemplating to hand over the responsibility of assessing the needs village wise by conducting survey through field assistants and village secretaries.', 'Once the assessment was made, adequate allocations would be made for the sector and the government was prepared to take the help from the Centre based on the priorities of the new government that would take over soon . “We can seek ₹4,000 crore to ₹5,000 crore from the Centre depending on its priorities in addition to the allocation made in the budget,” he said.', 'The Chief Minister was critical of the main opposition Congress for its charges that the government failed in providing reservations to backward class communities in proportion to their population. “The Congress has done nothing for the BCs. It was N.T. Rama Rao who gave 50% reservation to BCs in the local bodies,” he said.', 'Recalling that the TRS government had addressed letters to the Central government seeking constitution of an exclusive Ministry for the BCs as also enhancing their quota, he said the government had ensured that 50% quota was provided to BCs in market committees chairman posts.', 'Meanwhile, the Legislative Assembly and the Council were adjourned sine die after the passage of the Appropriation Bill 2019-20. The three-day session saw passage of four Bills, two pertaining to Appropriation and one each relating to Panchayat Raj and the GST amendment.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Make healthcare affordable, accessible’
['Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan presenting the Genome Valley Excellence award 2019 to Dr. Don Cleveland of Ludwig Cancer Research of the University of California, at the 16th BioAsia, which began in the city on Monday.', 'BioAsia 2019, the 16th in the annual series focused on life sciences sector, began here on Monday with Governor E.S.L. Narasimhan calling for making healthcare affordable and accessible.', 'Counting them as the biggest challenges, the Governor said an important aspect was also to ensure “how exactly healthcare people [are made] accountable for their activities. [There is a] need for a code of ethics in this industry… because you are playing with human lives,” he added.', 'Underscoring the need to make healthcare affordable, he said it was also time to go back to grandma’s remedies for various small ailments.', 'On the issue of accessibility, the Governor said healthcare should reach more people in rural areas.', 'Turning to Don Cleveland from the Ludwig Cancer Research of the University of California who was presented the Genome Valley Excellence Award earlier, the Governor said the rising incidence of cancer was a cause of concern.', 'That and the issue of newer viruses that are not responding to antibiotics were areas that research needed to focus.', 'In an appeal to the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Narasimhan said: “Can you make the names written on the medicines a little readable for senior citizens like us? It is impossible to read, you require all sorts of equipment to read,” he said, pointing out how the name on a strip is difficult to read once a tablet is taken out. “We need to ensure that table is readable...,” he said.', 'Addressing the gathering, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan announced the setting up of Telangana Life Sciences Grid.', 'It is a first-of-its-kind initiative to enable life sciences sector to achieve its $100 billion dollar potential in accelerated mode. Over the course of next six months “we will form focused working groups and prepare a detailed strategy for the Telangana life sciences grid”, he said.', 'Listing out various projects, he said the State government has secured environmental clearance for the Pharma City and the cluster will be launched in the coming months.', 'There has been significant progress in the establishment of the country’s first scale-up manufacturing facility for Biotech start-up’s producing pre-clinical and clinical biological materials. B-Hub will be operational in about 12 months and become a showcase facility for life sciences in the entire country.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Snacks sale: Corporation serves notice on multiplexes
['The city Corporation has decided to clamp down on the practice of security staff at multiplexes checking the bags of customers to prevent snacks and beverages from outside being brought in. The State Human Rights Commission Chairman Antony Dominic had intervened in the issue following a complaint.', 'The Corporation has served notices to the theatres asking the owners not to prevent customers from bringing outside food into the theatre.', 'The local body has also demanded that the price list of the snacks and beverages sold in the outlets in the theatres be displayed both in Malayalam and English.', 'Activist Ragam Rahim had filed a complaint with the SHRC after a family was prevented from entering following bag checking.', 'Quite a few theatres in the city check the bags of customers, who are often forced to buy from the outlets at exorbitant prices.', 'Following the Commission’s direction, the city Corporation and the Fort Police had conducted checks at the theatres and submitted a report to the SHRC.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Indian pharma companies roping in new talent
['Indian pharma companies are roping in new talent both from within the country and abroad as a measure to meet the mounting challenge of regulatory compliances, a top executive of a leading pharmaceutical firm said here on Monday.', 'Stating that the big challenge facing the Indian pharma industry is one of compliances, Natco Pharma vice chairman and CEO Rajeev Nannapaneni said the expectations were rising by the day. “The way we are dealing with it is by getting new talent, from outside India [too] which helps keep us in the loop and improve our standards,” he told a panel discussion organised at HICC here, ahead of the BioAsia inauguration.', 'Mr. Nannapaneni, who traced Natco Pharma’s growth as one of the leading oncology players and took queries from the floor, said quality expectations had also risen quite a bit over a period of time.', 'The number of adverse comments [from regulatory agencies], however, has dropped compared to what it was a few years ago. Indian pharma companies, barring a few expectations, are “well compliant and doing a good job. I can confidently say what the expectations are and [we are] striving to meet them”.', 'Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories chairman K. Satish Reddy spoke on how DRL emerged from a bulk drug company into a pharma major. It deployed a combination of strategy over time, including a focus on human resources, scaling up, building capabilities, both organically and inorganically, as well as striving for process and executional excellence.', 'CMD of ATGC Biotech Markandeya Gorantla highlighted the work of his company in the area of pest control.', 'The panel discussion followed the signing of an MoU between the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Ltd for hand-holding and providing expertise mainly in financial and operational restructuring to MSMEs in the region.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


ISRO to honour ‘Mrinal’ team
['K. Sivan, chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), on Wednesday will honour the team which developed the space agency’s first composite solid propellant ‘Mrinal’ in the 1960s.', 'February 21, 2019, marked the 50th anniversary of the first successful test flight of an RH-75 sounding rocket from Thumba using the in-house developed propellant.', 'Mr. Sivan will inaugurate the colloquium. S. Somanath, director, Vikram Sabhai Space Centre (VSSC), will preside over the function, sources said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Pinarayi to open new KSFDC theatre
['The movie buffs in the city have reason to cheer as they will have one more theatre to choose from, this week onwards.', 'The Kerala State Film Development Corporation’s (KSFDC) theatre equipped with 4K digital production is all set to open. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the theatre, located on the third floor of the KSRTC bus terminus at Thampanoor, on Wednesday at 3 p.m.', 'Minister for Culture A.K.Balan will preside over the function. As a tribute to filmmaker Lenin Rajendran, who passed away last month, the theatre has been named after him. In addition to the 4K-3D digital projection, the theatre also has a Dolby Atmos sound system, which only two other theatres in the city have. The theatre has 150 seats. Lift, canteen, parking and toilet facilities have also been completed. This is the fifth theatre of the KSFDC within the city, in addition to the existing Kairali-Sree-Nila complex and the Kalabhavan theatre. The KSFDC currently has 17 cinema theatres, one preview theatre and three studios across six districts. The State Government has also given nod for five more theatres in various districts, with funding from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIFFB).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Eye on Olympics, martial arts champ seeks sponsor
['For over two decades, Jameel Khan Patan has been waging a grim battle against all odds even while quietly collecting medals on the international stage; 18 gold, 12 silver and 18 bronze, to be precise. That’s not all. The martial arts champion also has to his credit four gold, two silver and six bronze medals in World Cups since 2016.', 'Yet, this spirited Hyderabadi continues to run from pillar to post in search of financial support to sustain his passion. “With the specific goal of making it to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in which karate is being introduced, I am still pursuing my love for martial arts,” he says.', 'For someone who earns a modest salary by training some schoolchildren in and around Toli Chowki, all that he looks for is some kind of support that would help him realise his goal of making it to the Olympics. “Compared to the support I got in the US with special exemptions to train and compete, the response back in my hometown has been disappointing,” says Jameel.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Postcard campaign for ‘green’ election
['Political parties may just have one more reason to go green this election as the demand is coming overwhelmingly from young voters.', 'Students across various college campuses in the city are soon launching a ‘postcard campaign’ to demand political parties to stick to biodegradable materials for campaigning. At stake are the votes of these first-time voters.', 'Anchored by the Project Sthithi of the district administration, the campaign is part of various initiatives to ensure a green election. Youngsters who had signed up for the District Collector’s Internship Programme (DCIP), and who took part in various initiatives including flood relief activities, are now part of Project Sthithi.', 'Most of it was online. Students have tagged political leaders in twitter and Facebook, raising the demand for use of biodegradable campaign material. As part of the postcard campaign, each student would write three letters to the State leaders of each of the three major political parties, saying that they won’t vote for their candidates if they use non bio-degradable flex boards and if they cause too much noise pollution during their campaigns,” says G.S.Bharath Govind, Project Head of Sthithi.', 'As part of its initiatives to spread awareness about climate action and the importance of adopting sustainable lifestyle practices, the Project Sthiti will also launch a ‘Buddy Bottle campaign’ in campuses, to promote the use of steel bottles to carry drinking water, instead of plastic pet bottles.', 'District Collector K.Vasuki will launch the campaign at the LBS Institute of Technology for Women on Tuesday.', 'The students will be encouraged to tag their selfies with steel bottles at #mybuddybottle_C5_Sthithi in social media, with the chance to win a surprise gift.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


From expansion to transformation
['Addressing crucial issues: (From left) Lina Mathias, Sidharth Bhatia, R.A. Rajeev, Awanish Kumar.', 'As more people enter the city, is there inclusive space for all?', 'One of the main ways of turning Mumbai into an ‘equipolis’ was to extend public transport by expanding the Metro corridors, said R.A. Rajeev, Metropolitan Commissioner, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority.', 'Mr. Rajeev was among the speakers at a seminar, ‘Mumbai in Transition’, organised by Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA) and the Department of Public Policy, St. Xavier’s College. Civil servants, academics, activists and journalists discussed the nature of urban planning, civil society practices and challenges of bringing about social transformation in the city.', 'Mr. Rajeev highlighted the transport-oriented development planning of the city with the slew of Metro corridors that were in various stages of execution.', 'Prachi Merchant, Urban Planner at the All Indian Institute of Local Self Government and Lina Mathias, Executive Editor, Economic and Political Weekly, highlighted the range of issues faced by women in the city. “The nature of migration into the city has changed with the increasing number of single women migrants,” Ms. Mathias said. She also said it wasn’t just spaces for protest that had shrunk in the city; the spirit of protest had done so too.', 'Ms. Merchant explained the participatory planning process through the efforts of the Hamara Shehar Abhiyan Campaign, which demanded social amenities for women in the city’s Development Plan.', 'The seminar is part of YUVA’s ComplexCity, an annual festival to engage with city audiences on several urban issues and practices, which has been running since February 13.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Railways to lease 45 acres for Dharavi redevelopment
['Set to change: The 45-acre plot is spread across two land parcels, of which 28.56 acres comes under the Central Railway, and 16.44 acres under the Western Railway.', 'The Railways will lease out 45 acres of prime land to the State government for the Dharavi Redevelopment Project (DRP), and will receive a portion of the government’s profits and new quarters for their staff in return.', 'This was part of an agreement signed between the State government and the Union Ministry for Railways in New Delhi on Monday.', 'The Railways will lease the land through the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA), an arm of the Indian Railways. RLDA will enter into an agreement with the Dharavi Redevelopment Authority to lease the land for 99 years.', 'S.V.R Srinivas, principal secretary, DRP, termed the agreement a win-win prospect for the State government and the Railways.', 'The Railways will get ₹1,000 crore up front for the land, out of which ₹200 crore will be disbursed in the next six months. They will also get a share of the net profit that the State government makes from the project.', 'Crucially, the Railways will get new quarters for their staff and encroachments on railway land will also be rehabilitated as part of the project, he said. The DRP will get large parcel of land for in-situ rehabilitation, which is one of the key hurdles of the project.', 'The 45-acre plot is spread across two land parcels, of which 28.56 acres comes under the Central Railway’s (CR) jurisdiction, while 16.44 acres comes under Western Railway (WR). There are several staff quarters, sports facilities, and administrative offices on the land parcels.', 'According to officials, around 5 acres would be sufficient to rehabilitate the Railway staff, opening up around 40 acres for the project. The land parcels lie between Dadar and Mahim on the WR and Dadar and Sion on the CR. Railway land between Mahim and Wadala stations on the Harbour line have also been included.', 'The Railway minister said the existing facilities on the land like railway quarters, which are 50 or 60 years old and in a dilapidated condition, will be improved under the redevelopment project and the encroachments nearby (3,000 slums) on Railway land will be allotted houses under the Slum Rehabilitation Policy scheme. The area will be developed with modern facilities through the DRP, he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


NGOs slam EC over voter list preparation
['Showing sheaves of replies to Right to Information applications, the representatives of two NGOs on Monday demanded that the Election Commission of India come clean about the preparation of voters’ list in Telangana as well as in the entire country.', 'A pilot project for the NERP-AP was carried out in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in 2015. “The names of three million voters were deleted then,” said Mr. Kodali.', 'The RTI reply by Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh spells out the approach towards the electoral rolls. “SRDH is a comprehensive portal for managing demographic for facilitation UniqueID identity authentication. The demographic information in this portal is sourced from UIDAI. The SRDH Portal and search engine have been used for seeding UID (Aadhaar number) in the electoral roll database (sic),” says the reply by the CEO to Deputy Election Commissioner, ECI, dated April 2018.', 'Citing other information, the NGOs demanded release of all information about the pilot project — disclosure of list of voters deleted during NERP-AP.', 'The NGOs also sought information about the source code, algorithms, names of private firms which carried out the Aadhaar seeding exercise. Besides, they have demanded that the EC destroy all the Aadhaar-linked data collected using the exercise.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Lake Ford bags The Hindu Young World quiz
['Chief guest and Excise Commissioner Rishiraj Singh with The Hindu Young World Quiz winners Devika P. and Anirudh P. (juniors) of Saraswathi Vidyalaya and Hrishikesh M.K. and Neeraj S. (seniors) of Lake Ford School, Kollam, in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. (right) A section of the audience at the quiz.', 'At the culmination of a thrilling competition, the team comprising Hrishikesh M.K. and Neeraj S. of Lake Ford School, Kollam, emerged victorious in the seniors category, which involved students from Classes VII to IX.', 'The runners-up (in order) were Radhika R. and Rukhiya Shanavas of Holy Angels’ ISC, Nanthancode; Rohan Deepu and Adithyan Praveen of Loyola School; Saraswathy Ashok and Nikhil S. Pillai of Arya Central School; Jacob M. Mathew and Abhay Krishnan of Loyola School; and Shone Kuncheria and Madhav Sreedhar of Sarvodaya Vidyalaya.', 'In the juniors category (Classes IV to VI), the teams of twins Anirudh P. and Devika P. of Saraswathi Vidyalaya came on top.', 'The runners-up (in order) were Kishan Sivadas and Abhinav Hari of Loyola School; Govind Krishnan and Joel Shine of St. Thomas Residential School; Mahadevan P. Nair and George Jose of Christ Nagar HSS; Badarinath Nandan and Adithya Sivaramakrishnan of L’ecole Chempaka; and Aashish and Rohan Skaria of Christ Nagar HSS.', 'The event, powered by Eveready Industries India Private Ltd., saw as many as 191 teams registering in the seniors category and 167 turning up for the juniors category at Hotel Apollo Dimora, the venue of the competition.', 'He emphasised on the need to promote such recreational activities among youngsters.', 'While every child might not secure an A+ or 90% in their academics, they will definitely perform exceedingly well in other avenues such as singing, drawing, quizzing, sports or any other activity, provided they were given the opportunity,” he said.', 'Math IIT was the regional sponsor, UNIBIC the snack partner and Arrow Publications Pvt. Ltd. the knowledge partner of the event.', 'Students of several schools in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta district participated in the competition.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A coaching class for women lawyers
['Coaching classes for students are not limited to the fields of science, math and commerce. A group of women law students, interns and lawyers took an extra class on the subject, ‘Law of Precedents’ at the Bombay High Court on Friday. This was coaching with a difference: it was an interactive session, conducted by Justice B.R. Gavai of the Bombay High Court.', 'Justice B.H. Dangre, Justice Anuja Prabhudesai along with several leading and aspiring women lawyers were among the attendees.', 'The session was followed by a question-and-answer round which dealt with rules of precedent in tribunals and the Doctrine of Prospective Overruling (construing an earlier decision in such a way that it would not have a binding effect to the parties of the original suit or to the cases decided on the basis of that judgment, and yet changing the law, applying it only prospectively to the future cases).', 'Anita Shekhar Castellino, the organiser, said the Bombay Bar Association always had sessions only for its members while the current one was open to all women lawyers and interns.', 'She also said Justice B.R. Gavai could not be a better choice for the session: he had supported the cause of women’s empowerment in his courtroom during various proceedings.', 'Explaining the rationale for the session, she said, “Women do not get proper recognition. They are leaving this profession because of issues such as not being able to join post pregnancy etc. Such sessions give them a medium to interact with fellow lawyers and learn at the same time,” Ms. Castellino said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


TS voter numbers see-saw
['In the 2014 general elections in Telangana, there were 2,81,65,885 electors. During the special summary revision (SSR) of electoral rolls in 2016, the number dropped to 2,60,06,921 — a steep drop of 21,58,964.', 'In the 2018 Telangana Assembly elections, the number rose to 2,80,66,331 voters. Under the current SSR, the number of electors is set to cross the 2014 figure for the first time. “This massive dip in the number of electors in 2016 was due to the use of software to weed out specific voters under the National Electoral Rolls Purification and Authentication Programme (NERP-AP),” says security expert Srinivas Kodali, who used the Right to Information (RTI) application to dig up information stored in the offices of Election Commission in Delhi and Hyderabad.', 'The methodology used to delete voters has been shared for the first time by the EC. “CEO office supplied/shared the electoral roll/EPIC database with the State Resident Data Hub (SRDH) application. The application match the electoral roll/ EPIC entry with Aadhaar/Ration Card/ or any other departmental data with wider coverage of population above 18 years of age and seed the Aadhaar number in the electoral roll...For EPIC having less than 50% matching with UID Aaadhar has not been incorporated against their EPIC number (sic),” the RTI says.', 'The RTI qualifies the statement about what the EC did when the Aadhaar details did not match the EPIC details and the name was removed, “the Block Level Officer gone for door to door verification”.', 'This statement is contradicted by the letter sent by the then CEO, Bhanwar Lal: “There is poor progress of the programme in GHMC area and the door to door verification has not been conducted properly”.', 'Effectively, if the elector did not meet certain conditions in an algorithm, the name was deleted. The elector count which was 2,84,37,087 at the beginning of 2015 dropped to 2,53,27,785 at the beginning of 2018 — a drop of 31,09,302 voters (see chart).', 'The Aadhaar linkage in 2015 was patchy with 45% in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area and 84.45% in the rest of Telangana.', 'The CEO cited the difficult conditions in which he was tasked with the job of NERP-AP on a pilot basis.', 'The EC also revealed the algorithms used to delete names.', 'One of them is Soundex which uses phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound as pronounced in English. Levenstein distance algorithm which is a string metric for measuring the difference between two sequences.', 'Short and long name algorithm and String Shuffling algorithm were the others used for cross-checking names.', 'Incidentally, when the first time the EC used the Electoral Voting Machines in 1982 in 50 polling booths in Kerala’s Paravoor assembly constituency, the Supreme Court ordered a re-poll in booths where they were used.', 'The SC cited a technicality that Representation of People Act did not allow for electronic voting. The government of the day was forced to amend the RPA adding Section 61A to RPA to allow for use of EVMs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Now, watch horses do the show jump in Mumbai
['Giddy-up: A participant at a show jumping and dressage event at Mahalaxmi racecourse on Monday.', 'After 21 long years, Mumbaikars have an opportunity to witness the National Equestrian Championship for Show Jumping and Dressage, where horses once followed a pattern and jumped over several barrels with heights ranging from 1 to 1.10 m.', 'The horse show, which had led to Bengaluru and New Delhi becoming national-level centres for the sport, is back in Mumbai for a week-long stretch that concludes on Sunday.', 'On Monday, the National Equestrian Championship for Show Jumping and Dressage organised by Amateur Riders’ Club with the Equestrian Federation of India kicked off with 21 riders on Day One and 35 participants signing up for the whole week.', 'With every passing day, the levels of difficulty will only increase in terms of the barrel height being increased and newer horse manoeuvres. Participants on Monday included actor Randeep Hooda.', 'While show jumping is where a horse and his rider follows a pattern and jumps several barrels with heights ranging from 1 to 1.10 m, dressage is where the horse makes certain moves. While it is an Olympic-level competition, the aim, said ShyamMehta, president of the Amateur Riders’ Club, was to encourage the sport in the city and raise awareness around it.', 'The first round, called ‘novice’, was held with 21 participants, including Mr. Hooda. While round one was held in the morning, the second round was held in the evening at the Mahalaxmi Race Course.', 'While this year’s championship will see participants from across the country, there are also Asian Games star players Yashaan Zubin Khambatta and Kevic Setalvad showcasing their prowess. A group of army riders from Saharanpur and Meerut too will participate in the championship.', 'Mr. Mehta said interest in Mumbai as a venue is picking up again. “Usually, these matches would take place in Bengaluru, Meerut and New Delhi. There are many small riding clubs mushrooming in various parts of Maharashtra. However, proper facilities are important for this sport,” he said.', 'Yashank Khambatia, a participant, who has been into horse jumping since he was a child and has now made it a profession said, “Participating in international and national shows has boosted my morale. The fact that the show is back in Mumbai is a nice development. I can see jump shows grow from here on,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Professional help for students to fight stress
['The Narayana Group has launched Disha Helpline, a toll free number for students across the country for professional help with mental health issues.', 'Students can call 1800-419-1828 to reach experts who will guide them on handling stress apart from emotional and hormonal changes that they undergo in their teenage years.', 'Narayana Group managing director Sindhura Narayana and executive director Puneet Kothapa launched the helpline. Ms. Sindhura said psychologists and health professionals visited Narayana Junior Colleges and conducted group sessions, individual sessions and counselling for students, parents and faculty.', 'Over 40 dedicated on-roll counsellors made regular visits to 82 branches and conducted over 1,000 sessions with 80,000 students. The programme will be scaled to over 100 dedicated professionals catering to the entire group covering 4 lakh students. However, feedback from the first two years of the programme suggested that the initiative needed to be expanded beyond the group, she said.', 'Dr. Sindhura said a team of highly qualified professionals will be made available to counsel, mentor and guide students who contact them through the helpline. She said timely intervention can help students handle the emotional transition smoothly.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


TikTok helps woman reunite with family
['The woman saw a video by her sister and brother-in-law.', 'The TikTok app, which might have earned its users a fair amount of ridicule for their often hilarious shenanigans, helped a runaway woman reunite with her family on Monday, three years after she fled her house.', 'According to the police, the woman, a 16-year-old girl at the time, went missing on November 5, 2016. A case of kidnapping had been registered against unknown persons. In 2018, the case was transferred to the Anti Human Trafficking Cell (AHTC) of the Thane Crime Branch for investigation.', 'AHTC officers said that 10 days ago, the woman’s sister and brother-in-law recorded a video of themselves lip-syncing to a Bhojpuri song on TikTok and published it on the app. Shortly thereafter, the brother-in-law received a friend request on Facebook from a user called ‘Abhay Shetty’, who said he had seen the TikTok video and wished to interact. “While chatting with the brother-in-law, ‘Shetty’ started inquiries about his wife and also asked how many sisters-in-law he had. The brother-in-law found this suspicious and informed us,” senior police inspector Ravindra Daundkar, Thane AHTC, said.', 'Acting on the police’s instructions, the brother-in-law kept chatting with ‘Shetty’ and casually mentioned that his mother-in-law — the woman’s mother — was seriously unwell. ‘Shetty’ immediately made a video call to the brother-in-law, revealing her true identity in the process, and asked what was wrong with her mother. The brother-in-law asked her to come to the Charai area in Thane, where his wife is being trained as a nurse.', 'When the woman showed up, AHTC officers, who were waiting in plain clothes, took her into custody and questioned here.', 'On November 5, 2016, after fleeing from her sister’s house, the woman took a train and alighted at Byculla railway station, where she met an older woman. With the woman’s help, she secured employment with a catering service and was soon sent to Surat for a job, where she met an event organiser.', 'The AHTC will file a summary report in the Thane court seeking that the case be closed as the woman is safe and sound, officers said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


One-stop source for organ donations, availability soon
['Centralised software on the availability of organs and their donation in the State will be operational in eight weeks’ time, an affidavit before the Bombay High Court said on Monday.', 'A Division Bench of Justices Abhay Oka and A.S. Gadkari was hearing a petition filed by Siddanth Pal in 2013, seeking a direction for implementation of provisions of Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Rules. He has also sought real-time data on the availability of organs.', 'The principal secretary of the Public Health Department and secretary of the Medical Education and Drugs Department filed an affidavit that reads, “All the organ transplant data received directly from the registry transplant hospital is maintained by the State Appropriate Authority, i.e., Director Health Services, which is updated manually every month.” A web-based centralised data software is under development with the assistance of the director of information and technology, it said.', 'Awareness about the Human Organ Transplant Act Rules, 2014 as well as the importance of donation of human organs in cases of brain stem death and the benefits of transplantations in organ failure is being carried out through posters, banners, short films, radio jingles etc, the affidavit said.', 'There are group discussions, debates, talks and training programmes for transplant co-ordinators and doctors, and paramedical staff too are being organised through Regional Organ Transplant Organisation and Zonal Transplant Coordination Centres, it said.', 'The DHS has issued directions to all hospitals to maintain a centralised record of organ transplants carried out every year. It receives hospital-wise and organ-wise information of transplant every month from all centres on the basis of which the DHS monitors the implementation of the Rules, it said.', 'There are 92 registered hospitals for organ transplantation under The Transplantation of Organ and Tissue Act, 1994. However, hospital-based authorisation committees are non-existent in 74 of these. The number of organ transplants have been less than 25 in 2018.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Six-year-old survives freak accident
['Doctors from Zen Multi Speciality Hospital in Chembur have operated on a six-year-old girl who fell off a parapet onto a metal rod that pierced through her head. Sejal Yadav has recovered well after surgery and was discharged from hospital last week.', 'According to neurosurgeon Dr. Batuk Diyora, the rod had pierced from the right side into her brain. “The skull bone too had pierced through her brain due to the impact,” Dr. Diyora said. She was immediately taken in for surgery, which involved removing the fragments of the bone and repairing the dural tear of the brain. “There is no damage to her speech or senses. She is responding well and the weakness on the left side of her body will also reduce over the weeks,” he said.', 'Sejal was playing in her one-storey house in Chembur, and fell from a height of about eight feet on February 13. Since the rod was fixed, the parents had to pull Sejal off it and rush her to the hospital. “She was brought in an unconscious condition,” Dr. Diyora said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


BMC to print complaint numbers on clean-up marshals’ receipts
['A clean-up marshal keeps watch on litterbugs.', 'In the wake of a growing number of complaints against clean-up marshals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will print complaint numbers for people to call on, behind receipts issued by the marshals. The complaint helpline numbers are 1292 and 1293. A signboard with the numbers will be put up at Dadar as the BMC has been getting the most number of complaints from here.', 'While the policy is pending with the Standing Committee, the number of complaints against marshals are piling up. Marshals reportedly fleece unsuspecting people in public places, overcharge, do not give proper receipts, talk rudely, target travellers boarding long-distance trains by standing near the Swami Narayan temple near the station.', 'The scheme to have designated marshals in every ward was introduced in 2007, but was discontinued in 2011 after a large number of complaints of corruption and extortion. It was revived in 2016, but the contractors’ tenure ended in June 2017. The agencies have been given extensions of one year and another four months.', 'There have been several instances of clean-up marshals being booked for extortion or even assault. The corporation has appealed to people to file complaints with it or with the police.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Vashi real estate agent booked for rape
['The Vashi police have registered a case against a real estate agent after his 35-year-old live-in partner claimed that he raped her on the pretext of marrying her.', 'The complainant said that her parents were Navy officers and she has been working with a private firm in Vashi for the past seven years. In 2016, she decided to buy a flat near her workplace to avoid the long commute from her house. She began searching for flats on real estate portals and came into contact with the accused, Sushil Singh.', 'According to the complaint, Mr. Singh often accompanied the victim when she went to visit the flats. An officer from the Vashi police station said, “The duo soon started having an affair and Mr. Singh moved in with her when she purchased a flat in Airoli in 2017.” According to the complainant, Mr. Singh promised to marry the victim once both of them were financially stable.', 'In November 2018, a woman claiming to be Mr. Singh’s wife called the victim and started abusing her. The victim then lodged a complaint against the woman with the Rabale police. Later, when the victim confronted Mr. Singh, he confessed that he was married and had three children. He then stopped meeting her.', 'In January 2019, he contacted her again and said he had initiated divorce proceedings with his wife. He then claimed that his wife had kicked him out of his house and moved into the victim’s house for 10 days.', 'Police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal from Vashi police station said no arrests have been made so far in the case, but investigation is in on.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Dummy bomb found at Gorai ground
['False alarm: The dummy bomb, made of plastic, was similar to ones used in film shoots.', 'A dummy bomb was found at a dumping ground in Borivali on Monday, just as the panic over the explosion in Mira Road and the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) found in Raigad district is still subsiding.', 'According to the Borivali police, local residents spotted a suspicious object at the ground around 8.45 a.m. and reported it to the police. A team of police personnel, along with the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, reached the spot and found it to be a dummy bomb made of plastic, the kind that is used in film shoots.', 'Rumour-mongers, however, swung into action, and within a couple of hours social media was rife with reports of “one more bomb” being found in Gorai. The message was forwarded widely, including to people outside the city, leading to panic and concern.', 'Sources said given the current atmosphere, the possibility of antisocial elements placing the dummy at the spot purposely to create panic could not be denied. “As the spot is a dumping ground, it is equally possible that it was simply discarded there by someone. We are conducting inquiries in the area to find out if anyone saw the dummy being placed or discarded at the spot,” a police officer said.', 'The incident comes close on the heels of two similar ones this month. On February 20, a small crudely made explosive was detonated outside a hotel in Mira Road. The bomb, made from plastic balls, a jute fuse and a plastic bottle, did not cause any damage to property or life. The Kashimira police are conducting investigations into the incident.', 'The same night, an IED was found aboard a State Transport bus that had travelled from Karjat to Apta village in Raigad. Inquiries revealed that the IED was initially placed on an Alibaug-Karjat bus and was mistakenly taken to the other bus by the driver during his change of shift, who thought it was part of the conductor’s belongings. The matter is being investigated by the Raigad police and Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


73-year-old woman ends life in Parel
['A 73-year-old woman, who stayed alone at her 26th floor flat in Crescent Bay tower near Wadia Hospital in Parel, took her life on Monday.', 'The RAK Marg police said that a security guard found the deceased, Savita Sharma, lying in a pool of blood at the back-end of the building’s compound. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead before admission. The police started inquiries after they were informed about the incident at 7.45 a.m.', 'The police also made inquiries with Sharma’s daughter, who stays with her husband and in-laws on SS Road in Parel. Officers said no suicide note was found in Sharma’s house or on her person. Saurabh Tripathi, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone IV), said, “Sharma’s daughter has not expressed any suspicion of foul play. An Accidental Death Report has been registered in connection with the incident.” The police are also speaking to neighbours and family friends to check if Sharma displayed suicidal tendencies or confided in anyone about planning to take the extreme step.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


HC stays proceedings against S.Ve. Shekher
['The Madras High Court on Monday stayed all further proceedings in a case pending against actor S.Ve. Shekher before a Judicial Magistrate court at Ambattur here. The case had been taken up on the basis of a private complaint lodged in connection with a “derogatory” post that he had shared on his Facebook page after Governor Banwarilal Purohit patted a woman journalist on her cheek during a press conference on April 17 last year.', 'Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan granted the interim stay and adjourned the actor’s quash petition by four weeks. Claiming that he was not the author of the Facebook post and that he had inadvertently shared the post, penned by another individual, without even reading it, the petitioner said, he need not be made to face the arduous task of facing the trial when he was not the author of the post. He also alleged that the complaint had been lodged to tarnish his image.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'National Green Tribunal considers imposing damage of ₹100 crore.']


Cartoonscape - February 26, 2019
['Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Here are 10 cartoons by The Hindu’s cartoonists Keshav and Surendra that our readers loved the most.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


The house for a woke generation
['At the recently concluded India Design ID, an annual luxury design week in New Delhi, ‘Adulting’ — a term used in context of millennials and their inability to perform traditionally adult responsibilities — was the name of one of the four home décor trends of the year. Announced by the paint company Asian Paints, each of these is a package of colours, patterns, material and textures.', 'The predictions for ‘Adulting’ were a sombre ash-and-ivory colour palette with organic-yet-bright coral and lemonade pops, with repurposed wood as the material of choice, telling in its concern for the environment. The highlighted pattern was typography, a nod to how the millennial generation connects with languages and scripts beyond their aspect as a tool of communication. Last year, some of the last of the millennials graduated from college and started work. Presumably by now, they have settled into some form of pay cheque-generating employment — a 9-5 job, a string of freelancing assignments, a start-up, or what have you.', 'But this is a largely mobile generation, valuing experience over older notions of stability. In some industries, they have more market value when they’re moving jobs, and possibly cities, every couple of years, sharpening skills and expanding their network along the way. In others, it’s not the title or the corner-cabin they’re after — it’s the initiatives they start, ideas they put into motion, and the changes they lead.', 'In short, millennials are a self-aware and restless bunch, whose lives have been shaped by global economic downturns, the Internet boom, increased political polemic, and the pin-prick awareness of shifting seasons. And no space reflects their sensibilities better than their home.', 'Kulture Shop, an e-commerce portal for affordable art that was part of the ‘Adulting’ display, exclusively curated graphic art by contemporary artists. Its young team’s sensibilities, claims its website, is shaped by the sharp, yet fun socio-political engagement of the likes of Mario Miranda, and dairy cooperative Amul’s daily advertisements. This is the art that this generation has grown up with, and continues to engage with even today.', 'Likewise, designers in the demographic too are creating home décor that comes from a space of self-expression rather than the perfunctory needs of a market. In fact, they have realised that this niche is their growing market. For instance, the collections at Safomasi, a Delhi-based handprinted textile design and décor studio, result from 33-year-old co-founders Sarah Fotheringham and Maninder Singh’s life of extensive travelling. With words like “wanderlust” or “flâneur” featuring prominently on many a millennial’s social media bio, and with a whole growing crop of travel-and-food bloggers in this generation, being a traveller (as opposed to a tourist) has sealed itself firmly as a millennial activity and/or aspiration. It is this market that Safomasi has — unwittingly at first — tapped into.', 'According to the United Nation’s World Population Prospects: the 2017 Revision, the highest population of millennials globally is in Asia. Specifically, the millennial population in South Asian countries like India, Bangladesh and Pakistan, is high.', 'Tapping into this market, Swedish furniture firm IKEA has been sending out feelers to inform their forthcoming collection, possibly out in 2021, targeting Asian millennials. Akanksha Sharma, the 27-year-old Indian textile designer who the company hired in 2017, recently ran a survey through her Instagram account towards this. “It cannot get more millennial than to do an Instagram-based survey,” Sharma says. “I wanted to know what young people wanted to see in their homes, almost in a way that it didn’t feel like a survey,” she adds.', 'Having recently moved home in Delhi, it’s the idea of space more than furniture that instantly occurs to her when talking of the millennial home. The millennial is looking for private spaces that they would’ve lacked growing up in Indian homes, she says. But they also have the need to connect with the outside. A place like the balcony or terrace — often unthinkingly used as storage or as an area for clotheslines — is perfect as a semi-private space that also lets them connect with nature, giving a fair share of urban-farming millennials space to grow their own greens.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Shifting of base camp improves water quality
['Sabarimala has started yielding positive results with the shifting of the pilgrims’ base camp to Nilackal during the just-concluded pilgrim season. At least, this is what a study conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) indicates.', 'The study report submitted to the government by PCB environmental engineer Alexander George said that the faecal coliform count in the Pampa waters had come down drastically to 56,000 per 100 ml of water on the last day of the 41-day Mandalam pilgrim season compared to its previous year’s count of 4,00,000.', 'However, the coliform count had gone up to 60,500 on the last day of the Makaravilaku pilgrim season on January 19 due to drastic depletion of the water level in the Pampa.', 'Interestingly, the faecal coliform count in the Pampa-Triveni and in the downstream of Njunangar stream was only 1,600 and 1,400 respectively on November 30, 2018. This had gone up to 42,000 and 60,500 by the last day of the pilgrim season in January.', 'According to Mr, George, denial of vehicle parking facility at Pampa-Triveni, Pampa-hilltop and Chakkupalam were positive steps leading to lesser pollution of the Pampa. The Nilackal-Pampa forest route too was comparatively clean as private vehicles were not allowed beyond Nilackal.', 'The report said that the working of the modern sewage treatment plant (STP) at the Sannidhanam was satisfactory. It also lauded the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) for properly maintaining the sewage network system.', 'Mr. George said disposal of food waste had been a problem as it attracted wild animals to the area on many occasions. Absence of biomedical waste disposal facility at the hospitals and other healthcare centres was another problem to be addressed at the earliest, he said.', 'He said capacity augmentation of the STP at Pampa to 10 mld capacity and setting up of another 10 mld STP at Nilackal had become a necessity. Mr. George said permanent toilet complexes were a better option than bio-toilets at Nilackal and Pampa to check open defecation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


UDF talks on seat-sharing inconclusive
['With some of the partners in the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) sticking firmly to their demand for more seats, the first round of seat-sharing talks ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha elections remained inconclusive. But Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who spoke to the press after day-long talks at the Ernakulam Guest House, said the talks were friendly and peaceful.', 'He said the Kollam seat was being given to the RSP, which will decide the candidate to contest for the seat.', 'Mr. Chennithala said that both the IUML and Kerala Congress (Mani) had demanded one more seat each. The KC(M) demand will be discussed on March 3 in Ernakulam, while the IUML demand will be addressed at the Kozhikode meeting on March 1. Mr. Ramachandran will be present at both the discussions.', 'The IUML was represented by P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP; K.P.A. Majeed and M.K. Muneer. Mr. Kunhalikutty said at the end of their meeting with the Congress leadership that Tuesday’s was only a preliminary round of discussion and the issues raised at today’s meeting would be discussed more elaborately.', 'K.M. Mani, Jose K. Mani, MP, and P. J. Joseph participated in the talks for KC(M). Johny Nelloor of Kerala Congress (Jacob) said that his party had demanded the Idukki seat. C.P. John of the CMP also participated in the discussions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Too many contenders for Wayanad seat
['The death of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president M.I. Shanavas, who represented the Wayanad Lok Sabha seat twice in a row, appears to have thrown up a challenge for the Congress leadership to find a suitable candidate for the upcoming general elections.', 'With too many leaders from north Kerala throwing their hat into the ring, party sources said that choosing the appropriate among them was a daunting task as Wayanad constituency was spread over Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts.', 'Even senior KPCC leaders from southern districts too are vying for nomination. A reason cited for the presence of too many contenders is that the constituency is considered to be the safest for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State.', "KPCC member N.K. Abdurahiman, 64, chairman of the Karassery Service Cooperative Bank, had already announced that the seat should be offered to the 'I' group. Though his influence in the Kozhikode rural belt and Wayanad district remains indisputable, his candidature depends on the Congress high command taking into account his age and health.", 'Many other leaders, including former KPCC president M.M. Hassan and Kozhikode District Congress Committee president T. Siddique are keen to contest the polls.', 'Malappuram DCC president V.V. Prakash and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Shanimol Usman are also eyeing for nomination. Aryadan Shoukath, son of senior Congress leader Aryadan Mohammed, is another contender.', 'Mr. Shanavas won the Wayanad seat defeating M. Rahmathulla of the Communist Party of India (CPI) by a margin of 1,53,439 votes in the 2009 elections. This was when Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, who was with the Nationalist Congress Party then, secured 99,663 votes. Despite multiple forces working against him in the 2014 elections, Mr. Shanavas managed to romp home. His margin of victory came down to 20,870 votes.', 'The electoral success of the Congress candidate depends on several factors in the traditional UDF constituency. But groupism within the party has put up an obstacle this time even as alliance partners such as the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Kerala Congress (M) are demanding additional seats.', 'The Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency consists of Mananthavady, Kalpetta and Sulthan Bathery (Wayanad district); Thiruvambady (Kozhikode district), and Nilambur, Wandoor and Eranad (Malappuram district) Assembly segments.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Woman judge to hear actor abduction case
['The trial of the abduction and assault of a woman actor will begin before Honey M. Varghese, Special Judge 3 of the CBI special court, the Kerala High Court has ordered.', 'Justice V. Raja Vijayaraghavan issued the order on a writ petition filed by the victim seeking a special court and a woman judge to consider the case.', 'The trial of the case shall not affect the proceedings in the other cases considered by the court, instructed the High Court.', 'Counsels of actor Dileep and Sunilkumar, the two accused in the case, had opposed the plea of the victim for a woman judge to try the case.', 'However, Suman Chakravarthy, senior government pleader, contended that the move of the accused was an attempt to delay the trial in the case. While counsels of the petitioners contended that the government was supporting the woman actor, the government pleader pointed out that the State had a responsibility to support the victim.', 'The State also submitted that it was willing to set up a special court for the trial.', 'The woman actor was allegedly abducted and raped in a moving car on February 17, 2017.', 'The police have arraigned 11 persons, including Dileep, as the accused in the case.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


CPI(M) warns of public protest
['The CPI(M) has warned of a public protest against attempts to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Group, which has emerged the highest bidder for operating the airport.', 'Addressing the media in Kottayam on Monday, Mr.Balakrishnan said the party was resolved to prevent the move at any cost.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Kannur University Registrar rejoins duty
['Suspended Registrar of the Kannur University Balachandran Keezhoth has rejoined duty on Monday afternoon following the High Court Division Bench order upholding a Single Bench judgement setting aside the suspension order issued to him by Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran.', 'Dr. Keezhoth reached the university headquarters here and rejoined work following the High Court order in an appeal moved by the university against the Single Bench order.', 'He could not earlier rejoin duty, as the authorities had refused to issue rejoining order saying that the university had moved an appeal in High Court.', 'The Vice Chancellor also said the High Court allowed the university to go ahead with the inquiry against the Registrar. “We will continue the inquiry,” he added.', 'The Registrar had been placed under suspension for not complying with the Vice Chancellor’s order to submit the list of agitating employees of the university who had staged a dharna on January 15, and also for not initiating disciplinary action against those employees.', 'The High Court Division Bench, in its order, observed that the Vice Chancellor was merely acting under the dictates of the Syndicate.', 'The court said that the suspension was totally unwarranted, directing the Vice Chancellor to act fairly to uphold the organisational values.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Calicut varsity to host GIAN programme
['Calicut University will launch a unique academic programme titled Global Initiative of Academic Networks (GIAN) on Tuesday.', 'Funded by the Central government, the GIAN programme will bring select faculty from foreign universities to conduct short-term courses on Calicut University campus.', 'The varsity is among the top institutions across the country, including IITs, IIMs and NITs, where the GIAN programme is being held. Vice Chancellor K. Mohammed Basheer said it was for the first time that the university got so many reputed faculty from foreign universities to conduct short-term programmes.', 'Eight such programmes will be conducted at Calicut University in six months. “For a State university, eight programmes under GIAN is a matter of prestige,” said Dr. Basheer. He said the short-term programmes in a variety of subjects would not only expose the students to experienced international faculty, but also explore possibilities of collaborative research with foreign institutions.', 'Gary D. Smith from Michigan University, USA, will hold a course on ‘human preimplantation embryos and human embryonic stem cells’.', 'Donald L.J. Quicke from Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, will conduct a programme on ‘parasitoid ichneumonoid wasps’.', 'Anand S. Srivastava, chairman and co-founder of GIOSTAR, USA, will lead a programme on ‘techniques and processes in biological and therapeutic research’. Timothy A. Mousseau from the University of South Carolina, USA, will lead a course on ‘environmental impact of radioactivity’.', 'Michael Moeller from Royal Botanic Gardens, Edinburgh, will conduct a week-long workshop on molecular phylogeny. Hazem M. Kalaji from Warsaw University of Life Sciences, Poland, will lead a programme on ‘rapid and precise assessment of physiological response of plants towards stress using computerised and portable instruments’.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Joseph throws his hat into Lok Sabha poll fray
['With just a day left for kick-starting the inter-party discussions on seat allocation in the United Democratic Front, the Kerala Congress (M) working chairman P.J. Joseph on Monday sprang a surprise by expressing his intentions to contest the Lok Sabha election.', 'On the occasion, he also sought to turn down the reports of Nisha Jose K. Mani contesting from Kottayam and said that the party committee was yet to decide on its list of candidates.', 'The announcements, which came amidst reports of a hard-bargaining by the Joseph group for the Kottayam Lok Sabha seat, have also strengthened suspicion of a raging factional feud within the party.', 'Meanwhile, Nisha Jose K. Mani here on Monday clarified that she had never intended to contest the elections. “I am not a party member but just a supporter. I have already made it clear that I would not be contesting. At the same time, I will be campaigning for anyone contesting on behalf of the party,” she said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


CM opens Alappuzha road project
['Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated development of roads under the Alappuzha City Road Improvement Project (ACRIP) here on Monday.', 'In the first phase, 22 roads with a total length of 46.71 km will be developed and upgraded.', 'The project is being implemented in the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode on Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis at ₹288 crore.', 'The project is expected to be completed in two years. The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) is the implementing agency. As part of the project, the roads will be redesigned and strengthened with two-lane carriage way and footpaths. The existing pavements will be strengthened and drains, cycle tracks and other facilities will be constructed. Earlier, an agreement had been reached with Rohan Rajdeep Tollways Ltd for the implementation of the project.', 'As per the agreement, the concessionaire has to construct, operate and maintain the roads for a period of 15 years, including construction period of two years and annuity period of 13 years.', 'Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister inaugurated a meet of fisherwomen at Town Square.', 'Mr. Vijayan also launched the construction work on Udayakumar district stadium at Chengannur.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Peethambaran denies involvement in twin murders
['A. Peethambaran, the main accused in a case of murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periya in Kasaragod, has denied his involvement in the murders before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Kanhangad.', 'He also told the court that he was threatened by police officers when he was in custody at the Bekal police station.', 'Neither confirming nor denying the reported statement of Peethambaran before the magistrate, Kasaragod District Police Chief James Joseph said the police recovered the murder weapons as per his custodial disclosure.', 'The same accused had shown to the police the spots where the weapons had been abandoned, he said, adding that one of the other accused had also confirmed the involvement of Peethambaran in the murders. The investigators had secured circumstantial evidence to prove Peethambaran’s involvement in the crime, he said.', 'Peethambaran had earlier confessed in police custody that he was involved in the murders. The police produced Peethambaran and Saji George, another accused in the case, before the magistrate as their police custody ended on Monday.', 'The police said the Crime Branch, which was handed over investigation in the case on Monday, would seek the custody of the accused in a couple of days.', 'Kasaragod District Collector D. Sajith Babu will hold an all-party peace meeting at the Collectorate on February 26 to restore peace in the district.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Union Cabinet to take final decision, HC told
['The approval of the Union Cabinet will be obtained before issuing the letter of award for the bidders who win the privatisation bids of the six airports of the country, including the Thiruvananthapuram airport, the Centre has submitted in the Kerala High Court.', 'The Centre made its position known in a case which challenged the privatisation bid of the Thiruvananthapuram airport.', 'The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had earlier decided to privatise the operation and maintenance of airports. The airports will be leased out for 50 years.', 'The authority on November 2018 issued an in-principle approval for leasing out the airports.', 'The Union Cabinet had also empowered a Group of Secretaries to decide on any issue falling beyond the scope of the Private Public Partnership Approval Committee.', 'The court, which refused to stay privatisation of the Thiruvananthapuram airport, posted the case to be considered after three weeks.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Govt. to take all steps to protect KMML: Minister
['Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said that the government will do everything possible to protect Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML), a public-sector unit that plays a crucial role in the development of the State.', 'Observing that that KMML has enormous possibilities, the Minister said the government was planning to explore that by steadily increasing the production capacity.', 'Promising that the government is keen on solving all the labour issues, he added: “Currently, KMML has 410 vacancies, but still they are using contract labourers. The government has instructed the officials concerned to appoint them as permanent staff in all the available vacancies based on their service. Though there are technical issues, we are planning to make them permanent staff by March first week,” he said.', 'Along with that we will ensure the safety of all residents. Decisions will be taken only after consulting them. If their demand is rehabilitation, steps will be taken for that,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


AAI stands to lose in airport privatisation
['The Airports Authority of India (AAI), which manages 125 airports, is the loser in the privatisation of six non-metro airports.', 'The decision to select Adani Group as the concessionaire for the profit-making Thiruvananthapuram, Mangaluru, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, and Lucknow airports on the basis of the highest monthly per-passenger fee that the concessionaire will offer to the AAI will hit the mini-ratna category- I public sector enterprise.', 'This, a departure from the revenue-sharing model that the AAI had adopted in the existing privatised international airports such as Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, will turn a money-spinner for the private player. The clause that companies without previous experience can bid has also come as a blessing for the private player.', 'In the case of Thiruvananthapuram international airport, which catered to the needs of 43 lakh passengers in 2018, the AAI could generate a profit of ₹169 crore after expenses and works.', 'Eyebrows have been raised over the passenger fee quoted by companies such as GMR Group.', 'AAI sources said it seemed an understanding had been reached between the top two competitors to keep others from entering the field. Except Thiruvananthapuram, the private player need not invest much on these airports.', 'Although the AAI has announced that the communication navigation services will be retained under it , the fate of employees in the other wings is yet to be decided.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Pre-poll plans veer around community organisations
['The camaraderie the rival fronts and parties shares with community organisations have yet again turned out to be the pivot of discussions in the the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections.', 'The United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) that had been maintaining a safe and healthy distance from the Nair Service Society (NSS) and the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam had to alter their stance after the Supreme Court verdict on Sabarimala. The LDF’s relations with the NSS soured following the differences of opinion over the Sabarimala issue and that led to a war of words between the latter and the CPI(M) leadership.', 'Once the Congress leadership started inching towards the NSS and adulating its leadership, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had extended the olive branch and offered to build the bridges, but to no avail.', 'The NSS has taken a strident position against the LDF, and more particularly against the CPI(M), threatening it of serious consequences. The CPI(M) offer for discussions have been turned down too. Mr. Balakrishnan had clarified on Monday that the party was not opposed to community organisations, but clarified that he could not proceed since the NSS has closed the doors for discussions. But the spat took an interesting turn with the State leadership of the Congress and BJP trying to move closer to the NSS and claiming to enjoy its patronage and support in the elections.', 'Though the SNDP Yogam leadership had said that it was not for bruising the sentiments of the faithful in the Sabarimala issue, it has remained steadfast with the government and the LDF in its move to resuscitate the spirit of renaissance movement and also the organisation of the women’s wall at the behest of the government.', 'Now, constituents of the UDF, especially the Congress, and the BJP are vying with each other to wrest the space that they deem the LDF has lost by sticking to its stance on the Sabarimala.', 'Though the claims of community organisations in tilting the balance in the polls and their clout could not be gauged so far, the position of such organisations has already become the centre of discussions.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Budget lays stress on housing, sanitation
['Kollam Corpn. budget envisages revenue of ₹617.13 cr.', 'Housing and sanitation received maximum attention in the Kollam Corporation budget for 2019-2020 presented by Deputy Mayor Vijaya Francis here on Monday.', 'The budget envisages a surplus of ₹32.38 crore with a revenue of ₹617.13 crore and expenditure of ₹584.74 crore.', 'In a bid to provide housing for all beneficiaries in the Corporation limits, ₹90 crore has been earmarked for schemes under LIFE Mission. Rehabilitation of the residents of Alakkukuzhi colony, a project that started last year, gets ₹1.98 crore. Also, ₹5.12 crore has been set aside for the construction of a new flat complex at QSS colony, Pallithottam.', 'As part of decentralised waste management projects, ₹2 crore has been allocated for installing biogas plants at houses. Also, ₹75 lakh has been earmarked for aerobic plants and there are proposals to extend the services of Haritha Karma Sena. A new plastic shredding unit will come up at ₹75 lakh while ₹30 lakh has been earmarked for a new plant to recycle poultry waste.', 'Six acres of land at Kureepuzha will be converted into zero waste land after processing 23,000 tonnes of garbage through bio-mining and a botanical garden will be created in the area. A total of ₹2 crore has been set aside for this.', 'While ₹50 lakh has been allocated for installing an Effluent Treatment Plant at the currently dysfunctional slaughter house in the city, a modern slaughter house will be constructed at ₹1 crore.', 'While Njankadavu Drinking Water project gets an allocation of ₹15 crore, ₹50 lakh will be used for setting up a new RO Plant and installing the facilities to check water quality.', 'A project to convert all schools in the city as model schools get ₹50 lakh and ₹60 lakh has been set aside for the free breakfast scheme in schools.', 'Also, ₹88 lakh has been earmarked for conducting personality development camps and other training sessions in schools.', 'There are proposals to start an industry park, mini industry park, and IT park in the city and they receive a total allocation of 1.75 crore. A sum of ₹80 lakh has been allocated for a modern ready-made warp unit.', 'There are various schemes for women and persons belonging to SC/ST categories, including ₹13 crore for the Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS) and ₹1.9 crore for a She Lodge. The budget also earmarks ₹2 crore for a planetarium, ₹3 crore for an international convention centre, and ₹3 crore for a parking tower near the Kollam railway station.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Non-beta-lactam plant inaugurated
['Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday inaugurated a non-beta-lactam plant at Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (KSDP).', 'According to officials, the new plant can produce 158 types of medicines needed for government hospitals. It can make 250 crore tablets, five crore capsules, 1.5 crore ORS packets and so on every year.', 'Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who presided over the function, said that the LDF government had spent ₹50,000 crore on various development projects in the State. “The government will not allow pharmaceutical companies to loot the patients. Drug prices will be brought under control by increasing the production of medicines. The new plant will create 100 jobs,” Mr. Jayarajan said.', 'He said that the government would set up rice parks in Kuttanad, Palakkad and Thrissur.', 'Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac inaugurated work on a new non-beta-lactam injection plant. Dr. Isaac said that the production of medicines for the treatment of cancer would begin at KSDP next year.', 'Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran launched the distribution of free medicines to patients who have undergone organ transplantation.', 'KSDP chairman C.B. Chandrababu, U. Pratibha, MLA, district panchayat president G. Venugopal, District Collector S. Suhas, Planning Board member B. Ekbal and others spoke.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "Sweet pudding made from rice, jaggery, coconut gratings, banana and ghee — these were some of the dishes offered to the 'Attukal Amma' on Wednesday."]


Renowned Urdu critic Waris Alvi passes away after prolonged illness
[]


2,000 demonstrate demanding action in children missing case
[]


HC bench recuses from hearing GCMMF chief's plea
[]


2 murder convicts fight with sepoy
[]


GVK EMRI predicts 34% rise in trauma cases during Uttarayan
[]


Despite publicity blitz, Rann Utsav's occupancy levels dip 20 pc
[]


Consumer society wants 10 pc cut in electricity bill
[]


Encounter specialist Barot seeks 45-day bail for daughter's wedding
[]


Chinese goods banned in Vadodara for Uttarayan
[]


NHRC wants govt report in a month
[]


Ex-BJP MLA kin admits to killing wife over domestic tiff: Police
[]


Modhwadia embarks on yatra, slams Bokhiria for illegal mining
[]


SSB, BJP spar over Modi''s rally venue in Gorakhpur
[]


Eid-e-Milad: HC notice to Tapi SP over denial of nod for procession
[]


2002 riots: Sreekumar writes to Modi, urges him to take 'concrete measures''
[]


Daughter helps broker 'truce'', reconsider decision
[]


Modi minister''s husband won''t  join AAP under 'family pressure''
[]


AAP worker arrested for arguing with traffic cops, released on bail
[]


FIR against Teesta, Javed a  sinister campaign, alleges CJP
[]


One killed, 25 injured  as bus falls into river
[]


AAP to enrol 6 lakh members  by the end of January in state
[]


HC allows GCMMF to go ahead with no-trust against chairman
[]


Snooping: Pradeep Sharma lodges complaint, but cops refuse to register FIR against Modi
[]


In junior category, Keshod teen wins Girnar ascending-descending competition
[]


Union minister to lay foundation for two projects in Diu today
[]


19,000 participate in Sabarmati marathon
[]


FIR lodged against Teesta, others for 'breach of trust and cheating''
[]


Mafatbhai: An Aam Aadmi and a common man
[]


AMC workers lodge atrocity case  against civic chief over low wages
[]


Surat DCP commits gaffe at tennis  tournament: 'Only eunuchs clap''
[]


Centre to set up 50 new govt medical colleges, says Azad
[]


'In nine days, India to be officially polio-free''
[]


Former Vadodara Mayor  Vitthalbhai Patel dies at 81
[]


BJP MP Dinu Solanki named key conspirator in CBI chargesheet
[]


Outsiders in Kutch's mini-Punjab: Sikh farmers battling for their land
[]


Health is a political  hot potato, says Modi
[]


Sabarmati marathon introduces 'Gujarat category''
[]


Bid to get whale shark satellite-tagged fails
[]


'Fake beneficiaries'' rent out flats allocated under JNNURM plan, VMC starts crackdown
[]


Farmers unhappy with public hearing on Dholera SIR
[]


It''s business as  usual for wife
[]


Anandiben''s husband set to join AAP
[]


Over 150 inventors to gather in Gujarat for 'Maker Fest''
[]


In 10 yrs, state scores high in investments, low in jobs
[]


Main accused in hooch tragedy gets 15-day bail
[]


NID students design 'menstrual kit''
[]


Court accepts Pradeep Sharma''s defamation suit against activist
[]


100 Vadodara lawyers join AAP
[]


AAP kicks off Matdar Jagriti Abhiyan, up for 'clean politics'
[]


Kanu Kalsariya joins AAP
[]


Surat autorickshaw unions go on strike over 'unfair' CNG prices
[]


Modi gifts' auction yields Rs 19 cr for girls' education
[]


Minor raped, forced to drink cleaning liquid, two held
[]


Govt to undertake census of Great Indian Bustard
[]


Fire at Mangal Bazar prompts
[]


STF probes into 2004 Vadodara encounter case
[]


BJP prepares for Modi's Bareilly rally, Amit Shah outlines schedule
[]


Former BJP MLA Kanu Kalsariya may join AAP
[]


Festival zooms in on  pain of displacement
[]


Court denies bail to Shah again
[]


'Recent Assembly polls results  prove tribals warming up to BJP''
[]


Sardarpura massacre convicts move regular bail plea
[]


Snooping controversy: Panel asks Gulail.com  to file affidavit by Jan 15
[]


2002 Gujarat riots: Nanavati Commission seeks 'some more time' to submit report
[]


Air pollution in 15 areas of the city, reveals study
[]


Cong slams state govt over Centre schemes
[]


Under special scheme, MSU  to appoint retired professors
[]


AMC''s Rs 255-cr water  project hits roadblock
[]


Too late for Narendra Modi to express pain over 2002 riots: Kapil Sibal
[]


Vadodara zoo hopes to get emu chicks by next month
[]


Govt schools to spend more time on Gujarati in classrooms
[]


AAP broom sweeps Jamalpur market clean
[]


Jharkhand beefs  up security for Modi rally today
[]


Statue of Unity a welcome event for Modi as 'future PM''
[]


Clean chit to Modi: Magistrate relied on SIT lawyer arguments
[]


Working women feel 'safe'' in Ahmedabad despite rise in crime
[]


It was just another case, I was never under pressure, says Ganatra
[]


Flooding Vadhvana wetland drives away migratory birds
[]


Probe panel sends notice, portal questions motive
[]


'Not a 'vibrant'' Gujarat on women''s issues''
[]


Bharat shows the way, Leuvas warm up to Modi
[]


State BJP chief says it''s victory of truth and justice
[]


For Zakia, 'endless'' fight against Modi and SIT is on
[]


Retired Delhi DSP''s son held for helping Narayan Sai
[]


Shunned by their families, old age homes last resort for elderly
[]


Modi govt on 'populist gear'' with jobs, land in the offing
[]


With LS polls on mind, Modi showcases Vajpayee image to woo voters in state
[]


Court asks man to pay Rs 2,700 per month for child born of love affair
[]


Kutch farmers get lip service from ministers at Guru Nanak jayanti
[]


2002 riots: Court likely to give verdict on Zakia''s protest petition today
[]


After Keshubhai made a dent, BJP hopes son will strengthen base
[]


In a first, ministers to attend Guru Nanak Jayanti in Kutch today
[]


1,000 hectares in 60 days: GIDC creates a record of sorts
[]


As Kejriwal takes oath, AAP to sweep dirt spots
[]


Enrolment, fund collection drives  in BJP''s 2014 'Modi for PM' plan
[]


Japan firms invest Rs 500 cr in  1st country-specific industrial hub
[]


Probe ordered into Anand pastoral land-grabbing case
[]


Families of Patna blast accused get invites to Modi''s Ranchi rally
[]


Ex-minister, mining baron surrender
[]


Lost in translation, most mediums study old syllabi
[]


Bribery: Police take custody of Sai
[]


Ahmedabad airport gets two new radars
[]


Truck runs over man, mob targets vehicles
[]


Modi''s wax statue unveiled
[]


Modi''s wax statue unveiled
[]


Police remand for 7 Sai aides extended
[]


MSU gears up for 62nd convocation
[]


Vadodara BJP MP backs LGBT community on SC verdict
[]


AMC school board moots budget cut for next year
[]


CBI files chargesheet against BJP MP in RTI activist murder case
[]


'Japan looking at Gujarat  as investment destination''
[]


Snooping row: Cong demands SC probe again
[]


Mission Jagruti banks on SMS from villagers
[]


Few takers for Modi''s grand GIFT
[]


'Dead'' man walks home, triggers identity crisis
[]


'Dead' man walks home, triggers identity crisis
[]


Mission Jagruti banks on SMS from villagers
[]


Pollution norms: Navlakhi port operations suspended
[]


Shinde: Centre may order probe into snooping row
[]


Morbi ceramic unit owners meet PM, get assurances
[]


PIL in HC against road blocks during marathons
[]


Varanasi rally: Modi''s itinerary changed due to security reasons
[]


Statue of Unity: Govt on overdrive
[]


Greater flamingos miss a date with Rann
[]


WhatsApp to help ease traffic in Ahmedabad
[]


Dipda Darwaja massacre: 21 convicts move bail plea in HC
[]


AAP chooses aam aadmi in state to pick up their favourite candidates for LS elections
[]


Court extends Sai''s remand in police custody by one day
[]


Mars Orbiter spent 55% of the total fuel so far: ISRO scientist
[]


AAPter effects: A party takes baby steps in Gujarat
[]


Indian pharma company wins patent war against US firm
[]


Charges framed against 6 accused in biggest ever drug haul in Gujarat
[]


Modi''s Punjab rally postponed due to 'bad weather''
[]


CM Narendra Modi refuses to meet US delegation
[]


Asian giants in race to build Sardar Patel's 'Statue of Unity'
[]


Surat cops bring Sai to Ludhiana ashram
[]


Bharuch-Dahej Rail Corridor set to fetch Rs 1,000-cr revenue in 2013-14
[]


AMC puts the spotlight on malnutrition among students
[]


NIT-T is overall winner
['NIT-T basket ball team receiving the winning trophy from A. Myilvaganan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime and Traffic, Tiruchi City.', 'India Inter NIT Sports meet 2019. The NIT-T where basketball, volleyball and cricket matches were hosted drew participants from 31 NITs.', 'A. Myilvaganan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime and Traffic, addressed the valedictory session and honoured the winners with prizes in the presence of Samson Mathew, Dean (Students Welfare).', 'Around 1400 players participated in more than 200 match league and knockout tournaments in basketball, volleyball and cricket, Rajendra Kumar, Physical Director, NIT, Tiruchi, said.', "In cricket, NIT-T won the match against NIT-Suratkal. In Volleyball, NIT-T Women's team won the match against NIT-Jalandhar, and NIT-T men won against NIT-Nagpur. In basketball, NIT-T Men won against Surathkal, and NIT-Calicut women won the match against Jalandhar.", 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


“Tamil Nadu in the forefront in foodgrain production”
['Tamil Nadu has remained in the forefront in the production of foodgrains bagging the Krishi Karman Award from the Centre for this achievement, Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar said on Monday.', 'The steps taken by the State government to enhance productivity has helped Tamil Nadu in achieving the top spot for four years in a row, Mr. Vijaya Baskar said at a function organised at the Agricultural College and Research Institute at Kudimianmalai in the district to distribute agricultural inputs to farmers.', 'The government has been implementing a slew of schemes and distributing assistance aimed at improving the standard of living of the farmers and keeping in mind their overall development, he said.', 'Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu said the State government had been providing agricultural inputs and other machinery to the farmers at subsidised rates with a view to doubling their income and improving their quality of life.', 'Necessary compensation had been disbursed by the State government to coconut and cashew growers affected by Cyclone Gaja last year, he added. A total number of 107 farmers were provided with farm machineries and inputs worth ₹1.17 crore on Friday. Agriculture Department officials, farmers and others participated in the event, an official release said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Construction of additional built-up space at Navalpattu IT Park to start soon
['Navalpattu IT Park now has a fully-occupied built-up space of 50,000 square feet.', 'TIRUCHI: The Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) is set to add one lakh square feet of built-up space at its Navalpattu IT Park on the outskirts of the city.', 'Taking into consideration the high demand for built-up space, the State Government had sanctioned ₹ 40 crore for augmenting capacity of the IT Park that now has a fully-occupied built-up space of 50,000 square feet.', 'A private consultant had given a go-ahead for construction after conducting the soil test earlier this month, a senior official said.', 'The design for the six-storeyed building - ground plus five-floor - has also been readied. In all probability, the tender will be called for before the election code of conduct comes into effect, it is learnt.', 'At present, I-Link Systems Private Limited, Vuram Technology Solutions, GI Tech Gaming Co India Pvt Ltd., V.Dart Technologies Private Limited, V. R. Della Technologies Pvt. Ltd., and units one and two of Scientific Publishing Services Private Ltd, are operating out of the existing 50,000 square feet IT-cum-administrative building, which also houses the Tamil Nadu Disaster Recovery Centre (DRC).', 'A leading IT company is learnt to have evinced interest in occupying an entire floor once the new building is constructed. Several other companies have expressed desire to make their presence felt in Tiruchi.', 'From the time of tender, the construction work will take at least one and a half years for completion. It will take a few months more for the companies to function out of the to-be-constructed building. The ELCOT will allot the built up shell space in the new building along with air-conditioning and power back-up. The companies booking the space will take more time for carrying out the interior works, sources said.', 'The locational advantage of Navalpattu IT Park, which is in close proximity to the Tiruchi International Airport, highlighted through the two editions of Global Investors Meet is stated to be the key factor for the demand for the built-up space.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Phase-III of UGD project: civic body goes for re-tender
['The Tiruchi City Corporation (TCC) decides to go for re-tender for the phase-III of underground drainage system in the city.', 'The civic body had floated tenders for the phase-III in September, 2018. But the international competitive bidding for the ₹321.72 crore project had received only a single bid.', 'A Kolkata-based company was reported to have quoted ₹60 crore more than the estimated cost of the project. Since it was about 26% more than the estimated cost, the civic body called the company for price negotiation. The matter was also taken to the notice of tender award committee in Chennai. Three sittings were held with the bidder. But, the Kolkata company did not agree do bring down its quote. Hence, the Corporation has decided to float re-tender for the project.', 'He said that there would be no change in the total estimate. However, similar to the second phase of UGD project, the third phase to be implemented under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation could be converted into two packages for quick completion of the project. Clearance was expected any time from ADB. The project will bring wards 37, 39 and 41 fully under the sewer system and wards 31, 35, 36, 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 52, 53, 60 and 63 will be partially covered. The extension of underground drainage scheme will enable the civic body to bring 32,000 households under the UGD network. Formation of sewage line for 331 km and construction of pumping mains for 21.50 km were part of the phase-III of the project. Pumping stations will come up at Indira Nagar, Lourdu Nagar, Kulavaipatti, Muthukumarasamy Nagar, Panjapur, Arasu Colony and Natchathira Nagar. There will be seven lifting stations.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Student dies during education tour
['THANJAVUR: Vigneshkumar (22) of Silamalai in Theni District, a final year Bachelor of Fine Arts student at the Government Fine Arts College, Kumbakonam, is rerpoted to have died during an education tour to North India.', 'The deceased was among 40 final year Bachelor of Fine Arts students who had gone to North India on an education tour. They had left Kumbakonam on February 12 and were scheduled to return on March 6.', 'On Sunday morning, the Principal (in-charge) of College, V.C.T.Arularasan, received a communication from the Senior Grade Lecturer, V.Karunanidhi, who was leading the team, stating that one of students was found missing while the team was heading to Jaipur from Agra on a train on the night of February 23. Fellow students on noticing Vigneshkumar missing in the morning had raised an alarm.', 'Subsequently, at around 1 p.m., the lecturer had reportedly called back and informed the Principal (in-charge) that the missing student was found dead near the railway track at Dausa in Rajasthan and his body has been moved to the local government hospital. The cause of the death was not known. The message was passed on to the Directorate of Art and Culture and to the Joint Director, Tamilnadu Art and Culture Centre, Thanjavur.', 'When informed, the family of the deceased student requested the officials to make arrangements to transport the body to their home at Silamali in Bodinayakanur taluk, Theni district taking into consideration the poor financial position they were in. The request has been conveyed to the higher authorities.', 'The college organises education tours every year. While first year students are taken on a tour to Southern States including Tamil Nadu, the second year students visit States in central India and the final year students go to North India.', 'The College authorities declared a holiday on February 25 to mourn the demise of the student.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Stalin asserts DMK will protect the interests of MDMK
['DMK president M. K. Stalin offering respect to the portrait of salin CRPF jawan Sivachandran at Kargudi in Ariyalur district on Sunday.', 'A day after initiating seat-sharing talks with MDMK for Lok Sabha elections, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday sought to assure that his party would protect the interests of its ally.', 'Sharing dais with MDMK general secretary Vaiko to release a book penned by a senior functionary S. Veerapandian at Kalaignar Arivalayam, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Vaiko had staged innumerable struggles to protect the interests of Tamil Nadu on various issues, including Sterlite and Mullaperiar dam, over the last 30 years. No one could replace his struggles in the State on various pressing issues. “I will stand shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Vaiko in his endeavours,” he said.', 'Mr. Stalin said the attempts were being made to weaken the basic tenets of Dravidian fundamentals and its core ideologies in the State. The BJP-led government at the Centre had been manoeuvering itself to downplay the contribution made by the Dravidian movement to protect the interests of the Tamils and Tamil Nadu. It had been facing the danger of losing its pride and self-respect. The Dravidian parties would successfully thwart the “sinister attempts of divisive forces”.', 'Mr. Vaiko said the State had been facing the danger of losing its identity. The right wing forces were making moves to destablish the foundation laid by the Dravidian leaders.', 'Time had come for like-minded people to join hands with a new vigour to safeguard the Dravidian ideologies and the interests of the State, Mr. Vaiko said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Open defecation and garbage mounds raise a stink at Vinayaga Nagar
['Garbage being dumped on Vinayaga Second Street at Karumandapam in Tiruchi on Saturday.', 'The practice of open defecation at the entry point of Vinayaga Nagar in Karumandapam on Tiruchi-Dindigul road has raised concern among the residents.', 'Availability of vacant space at the entry point of Vinayaga Nagar is said to be the sole factor that attracts passersby, travellers and workers at nearby eateries to attend nature’s call in this spot. A section of local residents too find it convenient to dump garbage at the place.', "There are a number of shops and business establishments at Karumandapam on both sides of the Tiruchi-Dindigul highway. It is said that most of them do not have toilets for the workers and customers. Not even a single tea stall is said to have a toilet, thus forcing the tea masters, “parota” masters, workers and others to look for a convenient location for attending nature's call. For them, the vacant space at Vinayaga Nagar comes in handy. A section of residents belonging to North and South Streets also regularly use the spot in the morning and evening for open defecation. Similarly, travellers and Sabarimala devotees, who stop at Karumandapam for a coffee break, use the spot.", 'According to a local resident, the sanitary workers of Tiruchi City Corporation also have converted the spot as a convenient dumping yard. After storing the garbage for four or five days, they clear the spot by transporting it through light commercial vehicles.', 'He said that the Corporation should construct toilet complexes for slum dwellers and workers of various commercial shops. Until the construction of new toilet complexes, a mobile toilet unit should be stationed at Karumandapam on Tiruchi-Dindigul road. Moreover, action should be taken against those using the spot for open defecation.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Indra Nooyi joins Amazon’s Board of Directors
['PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi.', 'PepsiCo’s India-born former CEO Indra Nooyi has joined Amazon’s board of directors, the online retail giant has said.', 'Ms. Nooyi, who stepped down as CEO of Pepsico in October last year, is the second woman of colour to be added on the Amazon’s board of Directors.', 'Early this month, Starbucks executive Rosalind Brewer joined the Amazon Board.', 'Ms. Nooyi will be a member of the audit committee.', 'She was Pepsico CEO from October 2006 to October 2018, where she also served as the Chairman of its board of directors from May 2007 to February 2019.', 'She was elected to PepsiCo’s board of directors and became its President and Chief Financial Officer in 2001, and held leadership roles in finance, corporate strategy and development, and strategic planning after joining PepsiCo in 1994.', 'Ms. Nooyi has served as a director of Schlumberger Limited since April 2015.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Jet Airways pilots to wear black bands, not to work extra hours
['Following a crucial meeting of Jet Airways management with its pilot union on Monday, National Aviators Guild (NAG), the pilot’s body announced a black-band protest from March 1 as the airline was unable to give a further payout commitment.', 'In a communique sent to pilots, NAG said that 25% of November salary along with 12.5% of December salary (Totaling to 37.5%) will be processed on February 26. “Since the management was unable to give any further payout commitment, a flight safety period along with black band protest will begin from March 1. A detailed mail will be sent soon by NAG,” the communique said.', 'NAG directed all its members to send their March roster to their respective team leaders in PDF format. “Roster should be sent latest by February 27. Members who are not on WhatsApp should send their roster via mail to their respective team leader,” it said.', 'Dissatisfaction among pilots has come at a time when the airline is yet to update on its resolution plan that was cleared by shareholders during an extraordinary general meeting held on February 21. The resolution plan includes allotment of fresh shares and conversion of debt into equity.', 'Jet Airways has a debt of nearly ₹8,000 crore and needs to make repayments of up to ₹1,700 crore by the end of March.', 'A press statement, issued by NAG late on Monday, said that it is in public domain that Jet Airways is going through turbulent times. “While all employees have been getting their salaries on time, pilots and AMEs (engineers) have been doled out part payments every once in a while and are now running several months behind on their salaries,” it said.', 'NAG added that despite this, the pilots had stood steadfast by the company and maintained flight schedules through the last few months in the hope that its support would see the brand we all helped build once again achieve the prominence it enjoyed not so long ago.', 'The pilots body said that to understand that it is now being forced to take some simple measures to alleviate the huge levels of stress. “Measures to ensure that at least the factors that are in our hand, such as maintaining the promulgated rest, spending time with our families, seeking professional help where the stress is getting the better of someone and so on,” NAG’s statement read.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Start-up NIRAMAI raises $6 mn
['Artificial intelligence-based health tech start-up NIRAMAI Health Analytix has closed $6 million in a Series A round of funding, led by Dream Incubator, a Japanese VC firm, with participation from BEENEXT and other investors.', 'Ventures, Ankur Capital, Axilor Ventures and Binny Bansal also participated in the round. The funds will be used for scaling up in India, hiring top talent and getting additional regulatory approvals for international expansion,” said a company statement. Founded in July 2016 by Geetha Manjunath and Nidhi Mathur, NIRAMAI has previously raised a seed round of $1mn in April 2017.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Tata Motors to launch Altroz in mid-2019
['Tata Motors has named its upcoming hatchback as Altroz. Called 45X Concept during the Auto Expo 2018, the production version of the vehicle would be unveiled at the Geneva Motors Show 2019. The name is inspired from the bird ‘Albatross’.', 'Mayank Pareek, president, passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, said: “The upcoming model will redefine the premium hatchback segment for the industry.” The vehicle will be introduced in mid-2019. It would be the first product to be engineered on Tata Motors’s new Agile Light Flexible Advanced architecture.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


JBM acquires majority stake in Linde-Wiemann
['Auto components major JBM Group on Monday said it had acquired majority shareholding in Germany-based Linde-Wiemann GmbH KG — a manufacturer of complex structural components and assemblies to automakers globally.', 'While the company said this was the biggest business transaction in the history of the JBM Group, financial details of the deal were not disclosed. However, it added that the group’s turnover is expected to leapfrog to $2.2 billion.', 'Linde-Wiemann, with revenues of $700 million and 2,300 employees, has base of 17 manufacturing plants across eight countries, including Germany, U.S., China, Spain, Turkey, the Czech Republic, Hungary and South Africa.', 'The acquisition is being done through the the group’s flagship company, Neel Metal Products.', 'Linde-Wiemann specialises in proprietary technologies in areas such as hot forming, tubular assemblies and usage of alternate materials such as aluminium resulting in lighweighting in auto systems. “JBM will also have access to L+W’s strengths in domains such as Electric Vehicle components & systems and battery structure & systems,” the company statement added.', 'Nishant Arya, Executive Director, JBM Group, said: “…We are looking forward to leveraging L+W’s experience in Europe coupled with our expertise in the auto component domain. JBM and L+W will together focus on developing new products that contribute towards improving the safety and performance of vehicles through light-weighting, thereby increasing the product quality and minimizing the time to market for OEMs, making it an integrated one-stop solution”.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Jet will re-emerge as a  financially-strong  airline’
['Jet Airways and Etihad Airways said the debt-laden airline has been patronised by its guests and will re-emerge stronger after the implementation of the bank-led provisional resolution plan (BLPRP).', 'They said in the last year, the aviation industry had experienced extraordinary headwinds and challenges and Jet Airways had been hit harder than others.', 'They said the airline’s network load factor had risen to a high of 87% through December 2018 and January 2019. Flight cancellation rate in December 2018 stood at a mere 0.2%, the lowest among Indian carriers. Technical dispatch reliability in 3Q 2018, meanwhile, stood at 99.52%.', 'Meanwhile, the State Bank of India (SBI) had denied a media report that said it had decided to refer Jet Airways to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Adani Group flies high in airport privatisation plan
['The adage ‘the winner takes it all’ has come true in the case of the outcome of the latest round of Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) airport privatisation programme.', 'These include airports at Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Lucknow and Thiruvananthapuram which are all run by AAI now and will undergo ownership change in 90 days.', 'Going by the bids, Adani Group, a new entrant in the airport space, has bid aggressively with the second-highest bidders quoting far less than the winner, indicating the aggression with which the group had placed its bids.', 'GMR, which had also bid for all the airports, was found to be lacking in aggression. For Jaipur, GMR had quoted ₹69 per passenger as against Adani’s ₹174 as per passenger fee.', 'This will enable AAI to invest in the development of new airports or modernising the existing ones.', 'An analyst, who did not wish to be named, questioned the rationale behind awarding all the airports to a single player who had no experience in running airports.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Logos to buy warehousing assets from Casa Grande
['Pacts signed for 2.2 million sq. ft.', 'Casa Grande Distripark Pvt. Ltd., the warehousing and industrial logistics park development arm of Casagrand Builder Pvt. Ltd., has entered into agreements to sell 2.2 million square feet of pre-leased warehousing assets to Logos for an unspecified amount.', 'Avendus Capital was the exclusive financial adviser to Casa Grande Distripark on the transaction. Logos’s Indian business is a partnership between Logos and Assetz Property Group.', 'The property has been acquired within Logos’s India Logistics Venture, which has commitments from Canadian investors Ivanhoé Cambridge and QuadReal Property Group. The deal marks Logos’s first operational footprint in the fast-growing warehousing market of India and reflects a strong interest from global investors in this industry.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


PPIs get six months more to finish KYC
['The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the deadline to complete know your customer process by the Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) issuers by another six months. Earlier, PPI issuers were required to complete the KYC process by February 28, 2019.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Brokerages trade weaker post SEBI action
['After last week’s action by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) against two commodity brokerages, concerns over possibility of similar action on the much larger equity business of the brokerages hit their valuations in Monday’s trade.', 'On Friday, SEBI rejected the applications for registration of the commodity arms of Motilal Oswal Financial Services and IIFL Holdings.', 'The regulator further directed that all their existing commodity broking clients be allowed to move to other brokerages within 45 days.', 'There was speculation as to whether the equity business would be subjected to additional regulatory compliance or proceedings since the commodity arms had been found unfit to function due to their alleged role in the ₹5,600-crore settlement scam at the National Spot Exchange Ltd. (NSEL).', 'Shares of Motilal Oswal Financial Services fell more than 2%, or ₹12.60, to ₹599.70. That the stock was in focus was further corroborated by the fact that the volume saw an eightfold rise on the BSE with 32,000 shares changing hands versus the two-week average of less than 4,000 shares.', 'IIFL Holdings too lost a little over 1%, or ₹3.85, to close at ₹361.50. During intra-day trades, however, the stock was down almost 9%, or ₹33, to touch a low of ₹332.50.', 'The NSEL matter saw SEBI acting against 63 Moons Technologies, formerly Financial Technologies, after the erstwhile Forward Markets Commission found it unfit to function in the commodity market. Both broking houses said while they were evaluating legal options, they believed that SEBI’s orders would not impact their other businesses.', 'Shares of JM Financial and Geojit Financial Services also lost ground before closing the day with gains.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Banks may set repo rate as  benchmark
['Most commercial banks in India are likely to select RBI’s repo rate as the external benchmark to decide their lending rates, from April 1. The repo rate is the key policy rate of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).', 'The banking regulator had asked the banks to move to an external benchmark for loan pricing from April 1, a move expected to improve monetary transmission as lenders had, in the past, been found reluctant to reduce lending rate.', 'Banks had four options from which to choose the external benchmark: the repo rate, the 91-day treasury bill, the 182-day T-bill or any other benchmark interest rate produced by the Financial Benchmarks India Private Ltd (FBIL).', 'The marginal cost of fund based lending rate (MCLR) is currently the benchmark for all loan rates. Banks typically add a spread to the MCLR while pricing loans for homes and automobiles.', 'For the new benchmark, the central bank has mandated that the spread over the benchmark rate — to be decided by banks at the inception of the loan — should remain unchanged through the life of the loan, unless the borrower’s credit assessment undergoes a substantial change and as agreed upon in the loan contract.', 'If the lending rates are linked to the repo rate, any change in the repo rate will immediately impact the home and auto loan rates, since RBI has mandated the spread to remain fixed over the life of the loan.', 'Many banks have opposed the move to shift to a new external benchmark for loan pricing on grounds that their cost of funds are not linked to these benchmarks and that without a fall in the costs, it would not be possible to change the rates.', 'The issue came up for discussion again last week when RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, along with his deputies, met the bank chiefs to discuss monetary transmission.', 'However, banks are not hopeful that the central bank will defer the introduction of the new benchmark.', 'RBI was expected to issue the final guidelines on the matter by December-end but the guidelines are yet to come. Banking industry sources indicate that the final guidelines will be issued in March.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


IL&FS accounts can’t be NPAs without NCLAT nod
['No bank or financial institution can declare the accounts of debt-ridden IL&FS and its group companies as non-performing assets (NPAs) without NCLAT’s permission, the appellate tribunal said on Monday.', 'The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) bench said this has been done in the interest of IL&FS debt resolution plan.', 'The direction came after the hearing of an application moved by the government.', 'The new management of IL&FS is pursuing asset sales to bail out the company and its group entities and pay back its lenders over ₹90,000 crore.', 'During the last hearing on February 11, NCLAT had allowed IL&FS group’s 22 companies, classified in the green category based on their financial health, to service their debt obligations.', 'It had also approved the appointment of former Supreme Court judge D. K. Jain to supervise the resolution process. NCLAT had also lifted the moratorium and allowed 133 IL&FS firms incorporated outside India to continue with the resolution process. IL&FS group companies are classified into three groups — green, amber and red.', 'The companies falling under green category will continue to meet their payment obligation. While the companies which cannot meet their obligations but can meet only operational payment obligations to senior secured financial creditors are classified as amber.', 'The red category includes those entities which cannot meet their payment obligations towards even senior secured financial creditors.', 'Meanwhile IL&FS on Monday said four workers of one of its subsidiaries who were held hostage in Ethiopia over non-payment of dues have safely returned to India.', 'ITNL, through its subsidiary Elsamex SA, has been executing projects across various sites in Ethiopia.', 'Since mid-2018, under instructions of ITNL, several of the Indian staff employed by its project companies, had returned to India. However, a few Indian employees were not being allowed to leave Ethiopia for past several weeks on account of unpaid dues of locals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Luxmi Tea to buy Mcleod Russel’s Africa tea gardens
['Luxmi Tea Company, which came into the limelight with the acquisition of the iconic Makaibari Tea estate in Darjeeling, is aiming to boost its kitty of quality teas through a proposed purchase of the African tea estates of Mcleod Russel India Ltd.(MRIL) for about ₹149 crore.', 'MRIL, a B.M. Khaitan Group company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Borelli Tea Holdings Ltd., has entered into an agreement with Rwanda Tea Investments Ltd. (RTIL) for selling its entire stake in Gisovu Tea Company Ltd., Rwanda and half its stake in Pfunda Tea Company, also in Rwanda. Luxmi Tea Company and The Wood Foundation, Africa are the shareholders of RTIL.', 'The total turnover of Gisovu and Pfunda is ₹125 crore, accounting for 5.6% of MRIL’s 2017-18 turnover.', 'MRIL had earlier sold four Assam tea estates to Luxmi Tea Company, which is more than 100 years old and whose crop averages 23 million kg. It has 12 gardens in Assam, three in West Bengal and five in Tripura, besides a garden in Rwanda with The Wood Foundation.', 'MRIL entered Africa in 2009, a year after entering Vietnam. It closed the third quarter with a dip in profit (₹53 crore) and a lower crop (149 million kg) with the company saying that figures were not comparable due its sale of 12 gardens since July 2018. Profits at Rwanda gardens too were lower.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Corrections & Clarifications
['The graphic that accompanied “Safety, pollution top issues among women voters, says survey” (Feb. 24, 2019), erroneously stated that the total number of respondents of the survey was 40,000. Actually, it was 20,000.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


A life on the road
['In the next hour, I’ve packed two pannier-size bags, put my riding gear on, fired up the Harley-Davidson Street Glide and joined three riders on National Highway 48. The murky air clears up — as I leave Delhi’s noxious skies behind — and so does my mind: there’s never a good enough reason not to ride out of town.', 'Riding a motorcycle is all about sensory gratification. The sound of the engine, the wind buffeting the face, the satisfying clunk of the gearbox, the vibration under the seat. The best way to articulate what the H-D Street Glide — my ride for the trip — feels like, would be to amplify these inputs to superlative levels. While H-D’s new Milwaukee-Eight engine — infinitely more refined than its predecessors — takes a lot of credit for that, the weightiness of the Glide’s appeal is borne literally out of heft.', 'The largest ‘Softail’ in H-D’s line-up, the 400-kilogram Glide is the classic American cruiser, replete with a stereo, navigation software, massive windscreen, aircraft-like console, a couch for the saddle, and more chrome and leather than you’d find in a luxury car. If accoutrements, gravitas and comfort are the criteria, then the Glide is the motorcycling equivalent of the Starship Enterprise. Not one for puerile acceleration, it responds well to restraint, and a gradual build-up of momentum. And once you’ve understood how to channel that inertia, then it barrels through with the momentum of a freight train.', 'A long ride like Delhi to Goa is best done placidly. While it’s entirely possible to zip across in three days, our armada never hit warp speed. Four days, and atmospheric stops at Jaipur, Udaipur, Daman, and Pune later, I found myself riding alone on the final stretch down to the western coast.', 'At the first glimpse of the ocean, I stopped, pulled over, and wondered if there was anything else I would rather be doing at that moment. It all came together in that instant: the ride, the motorcycle and the place. Not sure about other directions, but at least this time, I knew what was in store for me, in the direction I nearly didn’t take. Jack figured it out a long time ago. I was surprised, as always, how easy the act of leaving was, and how good it felt. The world was suddenly rich with possibility.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


‘Syndicate members cannot be part of inspection committee’
['With the aim of tackling allegations of corruption, the Department of Higher Education has said that syndicate members should not be part of the committees that inspect colleges to grant or renew affiliation.', 'The department has also said that the committee members should be subject experts.', 'However, many universities have violated the rule, with sources saying they were ‘under pressure’ to nominate syndicate members to the Local Inquiry Committees, which are expected to visit affiliated colleges and rate them based on the infrastructure and their teaching resources.', 'Apart from sanctioning permission to colleges, they also recommend if the college should be allowed to start new courses, as well as whether they can enhance the number of seats.', 'Some universities have welcomed the order and feel that this would help in ensuring that the decisions taken by the universities are transparent.', 'M. Ramachandra Gowda, Registrar of Bengaluru Central University, said that the move is in the right direction. “The rationale is that the people inspecting a college and those approving the report of the inspection committee should not be the same,” he said.', 'But he said many syndicate members had challenged the order in court and obtained a stay. Prof Gowda. said that they had sent the matter for legal opinion to see what the university’s stance should be.', 'In 2017, a member of the executive council of the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) was allegedly caught on CCTV camera demanding a bribe of ₹25 lakh from an engineering college to give a ‘positive’ report. This led to the university coming up with a set of guidelines for committee members to follow during their visits. Some of these measures include not giving gifts or making hotel reservations for these members, and video recording the entire visit to the college.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BIFFes: Fans demand dedicated app for the annual fest
['The Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) provides a catalogue of films, each with a short summary and a printed schedule for the week. Visitors select films based on this catalogue, but the summary alone is not enough to make a decision.', 'Many are now calling for an app with all the information. “Most film festivals today come with an app. One can even book seats through the app,” said Harish Mallya, a film buff and one of the organisers. He added that they had been suggesting developing such an app for three years now.', 'Film-maker Sandeep Kumar pointed out that it was not just festivals abroad that had apps, citing the example of the International Film Festival of Kerala. “It has an app that allows people to book three shows a day. Half of the seats at any show are pre-booked at the festival,” he said, arguing for a similar app for BIFFes. Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, said there were discussions on developing an app this year, but they were held too late. “We will try to get a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'He added that developing an app in the IT capital of the country was not a problem, and attributed the delay to the planning of the festival. “We need to begin planning for the festival at least five months in advance. Despite repeated attempts, the government clears the festival only by December. If we correct this, we will have a dedicated app for the next edition of BIFFes,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners.", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Seven-year-old boy electrocuted after stepping on live wire in park
['BBMP officials inspecting the spot where Uday Kumar N. (right) was electrocuted, in Bengaluru on Monday.', 'A seven-year-old boy was electrocuted, while his five-year-old brother escaped with minor injuries, after they came in contact with live wire from a lamp post while playing at a park in Banaswadi on Sunday evening.', 'The deceased, Uday Kumar N., was a resident of Grape Garden and the elder child of Nagaraj and Gowramma. Nagaraj works as a contractor, while Gowramma is a homemaker. Uday was studying in class 3 at a private school in Banaswadi.', 'According to the police, the incident took place around 6.45 p.m. when Uday was playing with his brother inside Dr. Rajkumar Park near Kullappa circle. The police quoted eyewitnesses who said that the children usually play hide-and-seek in the park and on Sunday evening too, there were many children playing along with Uday and his brother, when the two stepped on the live wire.', 'The police said passers-by heard their screams and rushed to their help. The two were immediately shifted to a nearby hospital where Uday was declared brought dead.', 'Uday’s uncle said the boy had gone for a wedding with his mother and returned later in the evening. His mother had asked him to stay at home while she went out to fetch water. By then, Uday ventured out with his cousins to the park a few yards away. “That was the last time we saw him,” he said.', 'The police said the wire was connected to lamp posts and one end was left loose. The authorities concerned could have taped it and put up a warning sign board to prevent such accidents, but nothing had been done, the police said.', 'They have booked a case of death due to negligence against Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Bangalore Development Authority, and the contractors as they were carrying out a lighting work in the park and had left the live wire open.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Civic agencies refuse to take the blame
['A day after seven-year-old Uday Kumar N. was electrocuted, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) on Monday blamed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which in turn blamed the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA).', 'According to a statement issued by Bescom, the agency/contractor entrusted with renovation of the park had drawn an unauthorised line from the street light. The contractor had skinned out the insulated wire at various points and used the power supply illegally for the welding work. The skinned out wire was not covered after completion of work, the statement read, and added that the boy came in contact with the live portion of the wire and was electrocuted.', 'Stating that it was still awaiting a detailed report, the power utility pointed out that the accident was caused by the negligence of the contractor.', 'The utility has informed the BBMP to take action against the agency. Bescom’s Executive Engineer has also been directed to take legal action against the agency/contractor for drawing unauthorised power for welding purposes, the statement claimed.', 'Meanwhile, councillor A. Kodanda Reddy said it was negligence on part of the contractor. He said the BBMP park had been transferred to the BDA to undertake renovation and development around a year ago. The BDA handed over the work to a contractor, who had not taken any precaution, he said. “I have submitted a memorandum demanding ₹10 lakh compensation to the family of the child, apart from filing a criminal case against the contractor concerned after a thorough investigation into the unfortunate accident,” he said.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


BIFFes: Chaos over last-minute rescheduling of films
['A First Day Cover by India Post being released to mark the 11th edition of BIFFes in Bengaluru on Monday.', 'Confusion continued at the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) on Monday owing to rescheduling of many film screenings at the last minute. At several screens, the audience and volunteers got into verbal spats, with some almost coming to blows.', 'Cine-goers were seen complaining of “high-handedness” of the volunteers and even alleged that they were manhandled.', 'Film-maker M.S. Satyu and other film-makers were not let into the theatre even though they had passes that provide a separate access to the theatre. Journalist Dinesh Amin Mattu alleged that the volunteers were rude to the audience and were often announcing a full house even though seats were empty inside.', 'However, the volunteers had a different story to tell. Krishnan, a volunteer, said the audience often jumped queues and tried to barge into the theatres making their task difficult.', 'Another volunteer said people resorted to ingenious ways to get into the theatres — not vacating their seats after the show is over and holding on to those seats for the next show, which would have long queues outside. Audiences also made their way into the theatre through the exit doors, forcing volunteers to be posted at the exit gates as well, they said.', 'Organisers had expected the crowds to wane from Monday, but that was not the case. People continued to throng the venue in large numbers. Many skipped the weekend fearing large crowds and started attending the festival from Monday.', 'N. Vidyashankar, artistic director, BIFFes, said two books — Kannada Talkies in 75 years and Random Reflections — present a bird’s eye view of Kannada cinema from its inception to today and beyond. “Puttaswamy’s book traces the cultural evolution of Kannada cinema, and Random Reflections looks at the larger picture, including the business part of it, and examines what could be its future,” he said. Senior critic Aruna Vasudev said she was happy to see scholarly works on Kannada cinema in English as it was very rare for the wider national audience to be informed of the cinema in languages apart from Hindi and hoped the two books would fill such a gap.', 'India Post also released a special First Day Cover to mark the eleventh edition of BIFFes on Monday.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', 'Quiz: How well do you know the Oscars?', "It's been 90 years since the first Academy Awards were held, and the Awards have seen many notable wins through the years. Take our quiz to find out how much you know about Oscar winners.", "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Metro stations to get e-bikes
['Trial run of Metro Train seen from the Srirampura station on the eve of inauguration in Bangalore on February 27, 2014.', 'Namma Metro users now have yet another option for last mile connectivity.', 'From this week, around 250 electric bikes will be available across 150 locations in and around M.G. Road and Indiranagar. In the next six to seven weeks, Yulu Bikes — which is providing this service — will add another 250 to 500 bikes every week. It plans to spread this service across 800 locations in the city.', 'The bike, Yulu Miracle, weighs around 45 kg. Amit Gupta, CEO of Yulu Bikes, said their target group is commuters travelling up to 5 km. “We spoke to many of our customers who use bicycles, and found that the average distance that is covered is 2 km. Commuters said they do not want to travel for long distance as they tend to get sweaty when they reach office. So this is an attempt to promote last mile connectivity for distances up to 5 km. However, users can take the bike for longer distances also,” he said.', 'The base price of the bike is ₹10 and they will have to pay ₹10 for every 10 minutes. All the charging, repair and maintenance will be done by the company and commuters will have to simply pick and drop it at Yulu zones that will be set up around metro stations, malls, apartment complexes and railway stations.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


The new Bangalore International Centre complex is a free space
['Alongside better roads, an efficient garbage collection and disposal mechanism and so on, a world-class city also requires to build soft infrastructure, public spaces for all. The new Bangalore International Centre complex in Domlur is making an attempt to achieve that goal. The new premises is spread across 48,000 square feet and houses an auditorium, library, gallery, seminar rooms, cafeteria and so on. There is also a terrace and an amphitheatre .', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Elaborate arrangements made for Intermediate exams tomorrow
['Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has warned private junior colleges in the state against withholding hall tickets of students with regard to the Intermediate Public Examinations, scheduled for February 27, on the pretext of unpaid fees.', 'Secretary of the Board A. Ashok has threatened the managements with serious action if they were found resorting to such tactics.', 'Students who have not got their hall tickets as yet may download the same from the Board’s website starting from 4 p.m. on Monday. An exam centre locator App was launched at the same time.', 'A total of 9,42,719 students are set to appear for the exams this year; 4,52,550 for first year and 4,90,169 for second year.', 'In the General category, 4,09,090 are from the first year, and 3,82,996 from second year. A total of 43,460 are attending the first year Vocational, and 35,780 the second year Vocational, in the regular category, while 68,375 are appearing privately for second year General, and 3,018 for Vocational.', 'Of the 1,277 examination centres, 40 are self centres, where students will be allowed to write the exam in their own college for want of logistical convenience, Mr. Ashok said at a press conference on Monday.', 'A total of 24,508 invigilators will be deployed for the exams. Two hundred sitting squads have been deployed at the problematic centres, while 50 flying squads comprising members from Education, Police and Revenue departments, will conduct surprise checks to prevent malpractice. Exam observers too will visit the centres for surprise checks.', 'Photocopy shops near the exam centres will be closed during exam hours, 9 a.m. to 12 noon. CCTV cameras have been installed at all the centres, and question papers should be opened only in the visibility range of the cameras. A district-level high power committee with district collector as chairman and Superintendent of Police and others as members have been constituted, apart from District Examination Committees, for smooth conduct of exams.', 'The centres will be guarded by the police, and Section 144 CrPC will be imposed around the location.', 'RTC authorities have been requested to reschedule their services to suit the exam hours, and Electricity department, for uninterrupted power supply. Drinking water and medical facilities have been provided at the centres.', 'Candidates have been instructed to enter the examination hall by 8.45 a.m., and fill in the OMR details by 9 a.m. Fifteen minutes grace time will be permitted, and no candidate will be allowed inside after 9 a.m., nor will be allowed to go out before 12 noon, Mr. Ashok cautioned.', 'Cell phones, electronic gadgets, pagers, calculators, or any kind of printed/written material will not be allowed inside the hall.', 'Criminal cases will be booked against candidates resorting to copying, malpractice, or impersonation, and will be debarred, Mr. Ashok warned. A control room will function with the numbers 040-24601010 and 24732369 where complaints can be made if any.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Residents fume as they choke on burning trash
['The Municipal Corporation of Karimnagar (MCK) has banned burning of dry leaves and garbage in residential areas and along the roads, but the practice continues unabated in the town, posing risk to residents’ health.', 'Given that it is defoliation season, heaps of dry leaves are found under the trees. The fallen leaves and sundry litter are set afire after the roads are swept, generating pollution and causing morning walkers, schoolchildren and passersby to choke.', 'Besides, the smoke billowing from the burning of garbage has been affecting the visibility of motorists and leading to minor accidents, complain residents.', 'The sweepers say they are forced to burn the leaves and litter together on the roads as there is “no question of garbage collection rickshaws coming to the spot and picking up the trash”. “If we do not burn the leaves, they would again scatter on the road and it will appear as if we didn’t do our job. The jawans (supervisors), who come for inspection, will abuse us for not cleaning the road,” a sweeper argues.', 'Nagamohan, a resident, says the pollution caused by burning of leaves is paving the way for major health problems. “People with asthma and other respiratory problems are the worst sufferers,” he adds.', 'ENT surgeon Dr. Ch. Ramana Chary says inhalation of any kind of smoke, be it burning of leaves, garbage, mosquito coils or camp fires, is injurious to health. “Constant exposure to smoke may lead to asthma and other health problems,” he warns.', 'Mayor S. Ravinder Singh says strict instructions have been issued against burning of leaves and garbage in the open and any employee found violating it would be suspended.', 'Similarly, any resident found guilty of that would also have to pay a fine of ₹1,000 and a case would be registered against the offender, he informs.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Eye on Olympics, martial arts champ seeks sponsor
['For over two decades, Jameel Khan Patan has been waging a grim battle against all odds even while quietly collecting medals on the international stage; 18 gold, 12 silver and 18 bronze, to be precise. That’s not all. The martial arts champion also has to his credit four gold, two silver and six bronze medals in World Cups since 2016.', 'Yet, this spirited Hyderabadi continues to run from pillar to post in search of financial support to sustain his passion. “With the specific goal of making it to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in which karate is being introduced, I am still pursuing my love for martial arts,” he says.', 'For someone who earns a modest salary by training some schoolchildren in and around Toli Chowki, all that he looks for is some kind of support that would help him realise his goal of making it to the Olympics. “Compared to the support I got in the US with special exemptions to train and compete, the response back in my hometown has been disappointing,” says Jameel.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Elderly woman chased by monkeys, dies
['In a shocking incident, an elderly woman fell down and died after she was attacked by monkeys at Pandilla village in Husnabad mandal on Monday.', 'According to ACP Mahender, the woman V. Bhadravva (70) came to the local market on some work and was attacked by more than ten monkeys. She was scared and ran, and in the process fell down and sustained injuries. She died on the way to hospital. Village sarpanch K. Ramesh said that in the past also monkeys attacked people and the authorities should do something about the menace.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Show of strength by farmers
['Farmers who have been waging struggle demanding establishment of a turmeric board besides payment of minimum support price of ₹ 15,000 per quintal for turmeric and ₹3,500 for red jowar staged a massive dharna and rasta roko at Mamdipally Chowrasta, here on Monday.', 'The rasta roko and ‘maha dharna’ was preceded by an impressive rally by farmers who arrived from various villages in the revenue division.', 'They wanted the Government to purchase the crop directly from farmers at MSPs as they were getting prices which are below their investment costs. They also sought implementation of the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission to ensure profitable price.', 'The farmers’ leaders who addressed the gathering said that they were hardly getting ₹ 6,000 per quintal of turmeric and ₹2,500 for red jowar. On the other hand, they were incurring investment costs of ₹1.50 lakh per acre for turmeric and ₹30,000 per acre for red jowar.', 'Police made elaborate bandobust deploying a large contingent of forces to prevent any untoward incident due to the farmers’ agitation. They took all necessary measures for the smooth flow of vehicular traffic in the town and also on National Highway-44. However, reports reaching here said that following the farmers’ rasta roko at Metpally and Korutla in Jagityal district traffic movement was badly affected.', 'Meanwhile, farmers’ leaders spoke of filing mass nominations in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections to exert pressure on the government if their problems were not solved by that time.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.', "IAF strikes on JeM's Balakot terror camp: who is Yusuf Azhar?"]


Grand start to Peddagattu Jatara
['Regarded as the most-visited temple Jatara after the one in Medaram in Jayashankar district of the State, the biennial Peddagattu Jatara of Lord Shiva’s incarnate - Lingamanthula Swamy, started off with the procession of ‘Devarapette’ on the Magha Purnima (full moon) night here on Sunday.', 'The divine box ‘Devarapette’ that houses the Yadava deities Lingamanthula swamy, goddess Chowdamma and others, moved from the custodians of the Kesaram village this time.', 'Sounding the bugle and amid drum beats, village elders, along with Minister for Education G. Jagadish Reddy and Rajya Sabha MP B. Lingaiah Yadav, who shouldered the box, moved it atop the hill.', 'Nearly 30,000 devotees from in and around Suryapet fulfilled their vows on Sunday and women too completed the ‘basket pradakshina’ on the first day. According to belief, the three pradakshinas with baskets decorated with turmeric, kumkum and flowers, and filled with rice, milk, ghee, coconut, lemon and an empty earthen pot, is for the Lord, seeking protection of one’s livestock.', 'According to him, a devotee footfall of nearly 20 lakh, from the Telugu and southern States, neighbouring Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, is expected this year. And with ₹1.7 crore allotted by the State government, sufficient amenities have been built. The five-day event, besides prayers for the deities, showcases the culture, and through games, folk art, food, rare vocations and numerous stalls selling souvenirs, reminds the daily lives of the country side.', 'District Collector D. Amoy Kumar and Superintendent of Police R. Venkateswarlu said elaborate arrangements concerning devotee safety and experience are in place. “Preparations have been on for the past one month. As many as 1,200 policemen and an additional 46 CCTVs monitored through a command control centre are keeping vigil of the entire place,” they said.', 'Local legislator Mr. Jagadish Reddy was enthusiastic about the jatara, beating the drum along with colleagues Kodad MLA Bollam Mallaiah Yadav and MP Lingaiah Yadav.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


‘Take steps to irrigate lands in Agency areas’
['Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed officials to prepare an action plan for effective and optimum utilisation of minor irrigation water resources for agriculture in ITDA Agency areas and in areas where STs are in majority.', 'Chief Minister held a review meeting on utilization of minor irrigation resources in ST areas here on Monday. Minor irrigation water resources like ponds, canals may be used for supply of water for cultivation in Agency areas and areas of ST habitations where water from major irrigation projects are used for cultivation. The land in these areas is uneven with hills and valleys and water may be supplied through pipeline for cultivation, he added.', 'Podu lands issue will be resolved shortly and will get clarity on how much cultivable land is present in these areas, the Chief Minister said.', 'Chief Secretary SK Joshi, Principal Secretary to CM S. Narsing Rao, Irrigation Engineers-in-Chief Muralidhar and Vijay Prakash, MLAs Podem Veeraiah, Rega Kantha Rao, Athram Saku, Sunke Ravi Shankar, Durgam Chinnaiah, Chanti Kranthi Kiran, Bandla Krishna Mohan Reddy and others participated.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Mahua savouries from tribal kitchens to hit markets
['D. Divya.', 'Therefore, the new plan of the Adilabad district administration, perhaps the first of its kind in the country, to help indigenous people protect their culture hinges on plantation of mahua and introduction of the lesser known tasty savouries and eatables made out of the flowers of the sacred tree in the headquarter town, in near future.', 'Mahua trees come into bloom between latter half of March and April. Each tree sheds its flowers in the morning every day, over a period of 15 to 20 days and yields about 1.5 quintals to 2 quintals.', 'Please enter a valid email address.', 'Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team.', 'Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.', "Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters, or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text. (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and').", 'We may remove hyperlinks within comments.', 'Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.']


Under-construction building collapses in Goa; 40 feared trapped
[]


Concerned about people's plight, Rahul and Modi not poll issues for us: AAP
[]


Court to hear cases against Kejriwal, others on January 25
[]


Centre committed to growth of IT sector: Manmohan Singh
[]


Sexual assault case: Court extends Tarun Tejpal's judicial custody by 10 days
[]


Parties in U'khand showing renewed concern for common man
[]


Andhra Pradesh: 11 tribal girls in hostel allege sexual abuse by tutor
[]


29-hour countdown for launch of GSLV-D5 commences
[]


No proposal to increase number of subsidised LPG cylinders: Moily
[]


One dies in Muzaffarnagar riots' relief camp
[]


Focus on delivery of election promises: Omar to Kejriwal
[]


Nagaland: 9 bullet-riddled bodies found, Karbi-Rengma clash fallout suspected
[]


AAP prepares for Lok Sabha polls, Yadav says want to see Kejriwal as PM
[]


Maharashtra resident doctors call off stir
[]


US agrees with PM's remarks; says working to get ties on track
[]


City side: Political bickering continues in Delhi, GRP plans to make Mumbai safer for women
[]


Arvind Kejriwal refuses 5-bedroom flats, wants smaller home
[]


Devyani Khobragade's arrest has caused hiccups in ties with India: US
[]


Express 5: AAP slams all while Anna bats for his own statue
[]


Both Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi disastrous for country: AAP
[]


AgustaWestland chopper deal: CBI to ask for middleman 'budget sheet' naming FAM, AP
[]


I am out after polls, but Narendra Modi as PM will be disaster: Manmohan
[]


Ministers'' comments on our gay sex order 'unwanted'', says SC
[]


Arvind Kejriwal seeks 40 new anti-graft officers
[]


PM Manmohan Singh signals retirement after polls
[]


Doing whatever necessary: Delhi Police on Kejriwal's security
[]


CM Arvind Kejriwal prepares to shift base; BJP slams departure from 'stated position'
[]


Captain Gopinath joins Aam Aadmi Party
[]


Modi would be dangerous for Congress, not for country: BJP
[]


Congress lost recent Assembly polls due to insiders: Beni
[]


Congress hints at Rahul's anointment as PM candidate
[]


West Bengal: Teenage girl raped in Birbhum district
[]


Pakistan says will welcome visit by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
[]


WB minister criticises Bihar govt's stand on rape victim
[]


Kerala panel on western ghats make pro-farmer suggestions
[]


PM's language against Narendra Modi does not add to the dignity of his office: Jaitley
[]


Rahul rightful person to carry PM's baton: Manish Tewari
[]


Ganguly quits as NUJS lecturer
[]


Security to US Embassy based on threat perception: Salman Khurshid
[]


Three cops surrender in doc attack case; MARD to withdraw stir
[]


AAP clears next hurdle, M S Dhir is new Delhi Assembly Speaker
[]


Sexual assault: Scientist slaps notice on International farm Institute
[]


SC expresses displeasure at Ministers' remarks against its verdict on gay sex
[]


UPA has done quite a lot for Sikh victims of 1984 riots: Prime Minister
[]


Assault on Solapur doctor: HC asks Maharashtra Police act against
[]


People did not heed to graft charges in UPA-I, returned it to power: PM
[]


PM stresses on critical importance of investing in education
[]


City side: Unsafe in Gurgaon and jobless in Gujarat
[]


Opinion: While trying to hold on to his image, Manmohan Singh shows a new side
[]


Full text of Manmohan Singh's opening remark at press meet
[]


Tamil Nadu govt not following reservation policy in recruitment: Karunanidhi
[]


MLAs create ruckus over Telangana; House adjourned twice
[]


PM's press meet: Manmohan Singh's top 10 quotes
[]


Some of the remarks of Union ministers on Sec 377 ruling unwanted: SC
[]


Poverty recorded steepest fall in UPA regime since 2004: Govt
[]


Manmohan says Modi as PM will be disaster, blames him for presiding over riots
[]


Stir against Telangana paralyses services in Seemandhra
[]


Cash-at-door scam: Supreme Court dismisses former judge Nirmal Yadav's petition
[]


Indian assault case: One teenager gets bail in Australia
[]


Contract termination notice without firm basis for action: AgustaWestland
[]


Evacuation begins from Muzaffarnagar relief camps
[]


Manmohan Singh says he is not a weak PM, rules out third term
[]


Devyani Khobragade case was mishandled by India and US, say ex-diplomats
[]


Express 5: Trouble for CM in Himachal, but some good news from Panna
[]


Gogoi's plan to reset Assam clock to make best of daytime gets widespread support
[]


Can't cherry-pick: PC to BJP
[]


Eye in the sky could watch over jumbos to prevent rail track deaths
[]


Hirani-Dutt meeting in jail: Probe report says officials flouted rules
[]


Done deal: BSY returns to BJP after year in exile
[]


Bihar S-I killed in police station, former mukhiya, three others on the run
[]


Adarsh report: Chavan gave in as Cong, NCP backed indicted ministers
[]


Arvind Kejriwal wins House trust, Congress says could back him for full term
[]


Name of judge heading Commission of Inquiry to probe snoopgate likely soon
[]


Cong writes to EC, claims 50 lakh duplicate voters on electoral roll, seeks correction
[]


TMC welcomes Cabinet clearing Presidential reference on removal of Justice Ganguly
[]


Arvind Kejriwal's AAP can emerge as third option in future: Hazare
[]


CNG price may rise due to Centre's guidelines:Delhi govt to High Court
[]


Delhi's AAP govt wins Trust Vote, Kejriwal vows strong action to curb corruption
[]


People judging political parties 'harshly', BJP must introspect: Jaitley
[]


Tejpal case: Security nod may be made mandatory for Prasar Bharati members
[]


Two Maoists held in Bihar with arms and explosive
[]


Ex-ISRO scientist files defamation complaint against retd DGP Sreekumar
[]


Effective implementation of Lokpal Act necessary: Anna Hazare
[]


Cabinet clears proposal for Presidential reference for removal of Justice Ganguly: Sources
[]


Investigating officer of Naxal couriers case flooded with 20,000 letters claiming their innocence
[]


Sending vulgar messages, pictures amounts to outraging modesty: High Court
[]


IIT Kanpur student found dead
[]


MHA refuses to share Uttar Pradesh govt report on Muzaffarnagar violence
[]


Swamy tweets minister from Kerala used his office to protect son, Tharoor says 'not me'
[]


Justice Ganguly yet to decide on resigning as WBHRC chairman
[]


Chavan bows to Rahul wish, but gives clean chit to politicians
[]


Uttar Pradesh govt trying to displace riot victims: BSP leader
[]


Nitish Kumar gives Rs 1 lakh ex-gratia to West Bengal gangrape victim
[]


27 dead as bus plunges into valley in Maharashtra: Reports
[]


Arvind Kejriwal's AAP government wins Trust Vote in Delhi Assembly
[]


Muzaffarnagar riots: Akhilesh govt considers withdrawal of case against Muslim leaders
[]


Former US official criticises handling of Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade's case
[]


Kashmir Valley remains cut off for third day, reels under intense cold
[]


Kolkata gangrape victim was pregnant at time of death: Doctors
[]


City Side: AAP eyes Lokpal Bill and Modi turns fund-raiser for girls' education
[]


Ready to quit if charges proved: Virbhadra Singh
[]


AAP effect: Sanjay Nirupam threatens stir for power rate cut in Mumbai
[]


Jairam Ramesh: Govt won't buy land for builders
[]


Express 5: A chopper deal grounded and all SP flights headed for Saifai
[]


'48 hours' end: Arvind Kejriwal faces 'crucial' trust vote in House today
[]


All regions linked, yet miles to go for better power flow
[]


More SIMI men held, police say Sushil Kumar Shinde was target
[]


Former Infosys CFO Balakrishnan joins Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party
[]


Govt may reconvene Winter Session in Febraury
[]


Reddy under fire for portfolio rejig
[]


They had to protect family, says BJP after MoD cancels chopper deal
[]


4,000 Maharashtra doctors to go on strike after cops assault colleague in Solapur
[]


Four SIMI activists held from Ujjain, huge cache of explosives seized
[]


Kejriwal strikes again, Delhi govt orders CAG audit of private power firms
[]


President signs Bill, Lokpal set to become law
[]


Kejriwal's '48 hours' end today, AAP's trust vote in House
[]


Everything you need to know about AgustaWestland chopper deal
[]


Gold futures price down 0.39 pct on weak global cues
[]


Silver futures price slide 0.61 pct on weak global trend
[]


Gold futures price up 0.38 per cent on firm global cues
[]


Gold edges up for second session, physical demand soft
[]


Gold importers await uncleared stocks at customs
[]


Gold drops on fresh uncertainties over Fed tapering
[]


Onion prices fall by Rs 10 to Rs 60-70 per kg
[]


Silver futures slide 1.59% on weak global trend
[]


Gold futures down to Rs 29,638 on weak global cues
[]


Production of gold nose pins in India up by 30 pct
[]


Gold, silver down on reduced offtake, global cues
[]


Imported onion arrival brings down wholesale prices by Rs 10 per kg
[]


Silver futures slide 0.89 pct on global trend
[]


Gold futures price shed 0.25 pct on profit-booking
[]


Gold, silver surge on strong global cues
[]


Gold price surges to Rs 30,308 as US Fed keeps stimulus
[]


Gold falls below $1,300 as Fed stimulus decision looms
[]


Gold price snaps 5-day losing streak, gains Rs 300 on global cues
[]


Silver futures price recover 0.46 pct on global cues
[]


Gold futures price rebound on global cues, up 0.23 pct
[]


Gold price falls to Rs 30,100 for fifth-day on weak demand, global cues
[]


Gold prices fall by Rs 459 to Rs 29,669 on rising rupee
[]


Gold price retraces Rs 30k mark after four-day hiatus, silver spurts
[]


Gold prices dip to one-month low at Rs 29,636
[]


Gold imports to come down sharply to $38 bn in FY14: Rangarajan
[]


Silver futures price down 0.51 per cent on global cues
[]


Gold price falls 0.18 pct on global cues, rising Indian rupee
[]


Gold price to lose more gloss in 2014, India demand to contract: survey
[]


Gold demand improves as drop in price lures jewellers
[]


Gold price hits 3-week low as easing Syria tensions dent safe-haven appeal
[]


August gold ETF outflows highest in five years on profit-booking
[]


Gold, silver nosedive on heavy selling, weak global cues
[]


Cut-price onions crash attention-seeking Groupon website
[]


Gold price rebounds on fresh buying, silver plunges
[]


Gold futures down over 1 pct on weak global cues, higher rupee
[]


Onion exports drop by 81% in August
[]


Russia lifts ban on import of rice from India
[]


Gold prices tumbles by Rs 625 on sluggish demand, global cues
[]


Gold edges lower on euro, Fed uncertainty may help
[]


Govt may start gold deposits to channel savings
[]


Gold jumps after US payrolls data disappoints
[]


Gold tumbles by Rs 1,250 to Rs 30,950
[]


Silver extends losses in futures trade on overseas cues
[]


Gold futures down 0.91 pct on global cues, higher rupee
[]


Gold buyers rush to order as import rules clarified
[]


Gold gains for second day, surges Rs 660 on global cues
[]


Silver futures plunge 3.33 pct on global cues, profit-booking
[]


Gold futures down 1.95 pct on global cues, profit-booking
[]


Monsoon may wash away gold import plans
[]


Gold price jumps 2.5 pct, importers on sidelines
[]


Gold price drops on selling, silver firms up on sustained demand
[]


Silver futures down 0.27 pct on global cues
[]


Gold futures decline to Rs 32,598 per 10 gm
[]


Gold falls as possible US strike on Syria delayed
[]


Indian spices under regulatory scanner in US
[]


Dubai dieters trade fat for gold
[]


Commexes' turnover dips by 43 pct during Aug 1-15
[]


Gold: RBI spikes economic doom temple-talk
[]


Gold bounces after free-fall on strong retail buying
[]


Gold drops from record high, silver falls 7 pct
[]


Gold prices fall to Rs 33,438 on global cues
[]


Margin on gold futures raised to 5 per cent: Forward Markets Commission
[]


Gold price tumbles to Rs 32,325, down Rs 1,575 on fresh selling
[]


Silver futures regain 60k per kg level on weak Indian rupee, global cues
[]


Gold jumps to all-time high of Rs 34,500 on weak Indian rupee
[]


Asia Gold-Demand hit by higher spot prices, weak currencies
[]


Gold futures price seen hitting new peak of Rs 33,000 on weak Indian rupee
[]


Silver futures price rises 1.57 pct in futures trade
[]


Gold extends gain in futures trade on global cues, up 1.34 pct
[]


Silver futures price climb 0.71 pct on firm global cues
[]


Gold futures price up 0.20 pct on global cues, spot demand
[]


Gold eases on stimulus fears after early jump
[]


Gold shortage may lead to cancellaton of export orders in September
[]


Gold, silver prices climb as Indian rupee tumbles to record low
[]


India's gold jewellery exports fall 70 pct in July
[]


India stops buying gold even as prices hit 9-month high
[]


Gold futures price down 0.61 pct on global cues, profit booking
[]


India poised for gold scrap supply surge as import curbs bite
[]


Gold, silver fell further on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Silver futures extend losses, down 2.52 pct on on global cues
[]


Onion prices hover around Rs 60, peas soar to Rs 100
[]


Commerce Ministry wants easier gold import norms for exporters
[]


Gold price zoom: Jewellers expect 25-30% fall in business this festive season
[]


Gold to cost Rs 31,000 by December, demand to remain same as last year
[]


Gold price surges most in 2 years, up Rs 1,310 as Indian rupee, stocks tumble
[]


Silver futures regain Rs 51,000 per kg level, surges over 7 pct
[]


Gold futures regain Rs 30,000 level on global cues, up 3.56 pct
[]


Gold ends flat, silver eases in listless trade
[]


Gold prices snap 5-day rally, down Rs 125 to Rs 29,700 per ten grams
[]


Gold futures marginally down on Asian cues, profit booking
[]


Silver futures down 0.24 pct on profit-booking, global cues
[]


Gold price surges to four-month high on strong global cues
[]


Changes in duties on gold, silver to be announced later in day
[]


Silver futures regain Rs 47,000 per kg level after 4 months
[]


Gold futures regain Rs 29,000 level on global cues
[]


Gold and silver imports dip 34% to $2.9 bn in July
[]


Gold price surge to four-month high, silver too spurts
[]


Onion prices spurts 40 pct in Lasalgaon to Rs 46 per kg
[]


Gold dips on muted demand, silver scales 2-month peak
[]


Gold, Silver maintain an upward march on firm global cues
[]


Gold prices edge higher as dollar hits 7-week low
[]


Gold snaps 3-day falling trend, up by Rs 160 on global cues
[]


Gold prices may be skyrocketing, but diamonds have plunged 2.1 pct in July
[]


Gold futures up 0.31 pc on short-covering, weak rupee
[]


Gold, silver prices weaken on sluggish demand
[]


Gold rebounds on buying frenzy, silver reclaims Rs 42k level
[]


Gold, silver rebound on low-level buying, firm global cues
[]


Gold, silver fall on selling, weak global cues
[]


Gold price drops on hectic selling, silver also slumps
[]


Gold price bullish on sustained demand, silver eases
[]


Gold price extends gain for third day on sustained buying
[]


Gold price sprints to one-month high on strong buying
[]


Gold price surges to 5-week high on brisk buying, tight supply
[]


Gold price eases after four-day rally as dollar firms
[]


India moves closer to gold import quota as never-say-die demand puts economy on mat
[]


Gold eases after 4 days of gains as dollar firms
[]


India's CAD, rupee fears drive RBI to crack down further on gold imports, price to rise
[]


Indian gold traders wary of fresh deals as prices hit 1-month high
[]


Gold rises to 1-month high on weaker US dollar
[]


Gold shines in futures trade on global cues; up 0.72 pc
[]


Gold imports likely to remain low in Q2: Assocham
[]


Gold, silver prices soar on global surge to nearly two-week high
[]


Silver futures price gain 0.84% on higher global trend
[]


Gold futures price rise on firm global cues
[]


India notifies sugar import duty hike to 15% from 10%
[]


India's gold import headache to resume after June plunge
[]


Gold imports likely to dip by about 24% to 38 tonnes in June
[]


Gold price slide further on sluggish demand
[]


Gold, silver extend losses on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Jewellers turn to diamonds, NRIs to beat policy woes
[]


From May high of $8.39 bn, gold imports plunge to $2 bn in June
[]


Tomato prices race ahead of Indian rupee vs US dollar, reach Rs 80 per kg
[]


Gold prices fall, Indian traders stay away
[]


HC sets up panel to study Saradha scam report
[]


Fight for justice loses steam, hospital ready to open OPD
[]


Left stages walkout after denied to read out adjournment motion
[]


Defections continue, more civic bodies fall in Trinamool''s kitty
[]


Gautam Deb granted bail in land scam case
[]


NTPC to start work on Burdwan thermal power plant
[]


PIL seeks direction to state on WBHRC
[]


Mamata won''t attend rights day event of Justice Ganguly
[]


Mamata Banerjee opts out of Justice Ganguly event, Somnath to attend
[]


City Briefs: Former Forward Bloc leader assaulted
[]


Kolkata confidential: Reshuffle on the cards
[]


Results out, Didi in Delhi today
[]


Assembly results trailer of film set to release next year: BJP
[]


Modi an overrated myth: TMC
[]


CPM will soon become history, says BJP
[]


'Suffocated'' Mitra''s 'to quit TMC soon'' plan keeps getting longer
[]


Telangana Bill revives Gorkhaland demand
[]


'Modi represents forces that brought down Babri Masjid''
[]


Lone SP MLA joins TMC, merges party
[]


Minutes before Prez landed, Man killed in freak mishap at airport
[]


Babri Masjid should be rebuilt: Mamata Banerjee
[]


Target hasty TMC ordinances, short sessions in Prez speech
[]


Far away in Kolkata, Mandela lives on
[]


Pressure up on Ganguly to go: Didi writes to Pranab; Sibal, Jaitley want action
[]


FIR against Taslima for 'hurting religious sentiments''
[]


CPM seeks CBI probe into Saradha scam
[]


In a first, govt prepares  administrative calendar
[]


BJP asks Bangladesh to stop atrocities on Hindus
[]


Role reversal: Now, students to rate teachers at Presidency
[]


Trinamool to contest LS polls in Assam, Tripura: Roy
[]


Authorities postpone Aadhaar enrolment at LPG agencies
[]


SP MLA''s presence in Assembly draws Left Front ire
[]


Mamata writes to Prez for urgent action
[]


Home Secy seeks report on 'conspiracy'' to set Writers'' on fire
[]


Violence against Hindus in Bangladesh worrying, says BJP
[]


Crib deaths: Azad gives clean chit to doctors
[]


Shunted cop wrote twice to govt before arresting Malda DM
[]


HC stays termination of Barasat varsity registrar
[]


Oppn stays home as House celebrates  its platinum jubilee
[]


TMC wants Ganguly to step down, NGO files police complaint
[]


Bengal lifts ban  on potato export
[]


Not decided on quitting: Ganguly
[]


Police commissioner removed to stop truth from coming out: LF
[]


Delay services at your own peril: Mamata warns officials
[]


Bangla land pact: TMC to oppose Bill
[]


With Rahul nod, Cong to boycott House function
[]


With Rahul nod, Cong to boycott House function
[]


Navy plans coast battery at Sagar Islands
[]


Top education officials left on their own, not removed: Bratya Basu
[]


TMC to take call on Bangla boundary pact Bill today
[]


IPS officer sticks to his stand; out on bail, DM told to go on leave
[]


Custody death: SP told to reply in 3 weeks
[]


Silent protest outside WBHRC office for Ganguly resignation
[]


Orissa orders attachment of Saradha Group assets
[]


Lecturer moves HC over sexual harassment
[]


Not averse to politics, says Pranab daughter
[]


Buddha calls for consolidation of Left forces
[]


Chinese man held with red sandalwood
[]


A year after Aminul immolated self, rape accused walks free
[]


No regrets, my action was in public interest:  IPS officer
[]


Bagan wants AIFF to review Justice Ganguly''s verdict
[]


Six months after villagers find Gupta era gold coins in Murshidabad, ASI yet to act
[]


Cong may boycott Bengal Assembly celebrations
[]


Four detained for conspiracy to  torch Writers'
[]


Altamas Kabir 'shocked'' over charges at Ganguly
[]


Don''t vote for Trinamool, CPM, Shah urges Bengal
[]


Feel my investment not needed in Bengal: Sahara
[]


'Attempt to set Writers''on fire''
[]


Thieves are now talking big: Didi on Saradha
[]


CM to Left: Keep mum for 10 yrs
[]


NGT branch at Kolkata  to function from Jan: SC
[]


TMC MP demands Ganguly''s resignation
[]


The man known for cancelling 2G licences
[]


Ganguly down, CM weighs options
[]


WB govt explores options as justice Ganguly named in sexual harassment case
[]


TMC leader who assaulted principal on board of GB univ
[]


Left demands new Bill with Jyoti Basu name
[]


Privilege notice against Leader of Opposition
[]


HC extends status quo on sale of HPL shares
[]


'Who got money siphoned off by Saradha Group?''
[]


Cong''s split wide open as scuffles mar law violation
[]


Audio-video piracy now a non-bailable cognizable offence in Bengal
[]


Sunanda Sanyal manhandled, held
[]


Loans eating into 10 lakh jobs: CM
[]


Babus defy protest ban order at Nabanna, may move court
[]


Ghosh FB post: Police to file impersonation case
[]


Question Didi, she should come clean: Mishra
[]


Mayhem in Assembly over renaming Jyoti Basu Nagar
[]


Biman Bose deposes before panel probing ''93 police firing
[]


Those named by Ghosh have no link with Saradha: Sudipta
[]


Govt bans union rallies, protests at Nabanna
[]


Mamata knew all about Sudipta, never warned me, says Kunal Ghosh
[]


Stay on HPL share transfer continues
[]


To avoid bypoll, Mitra to resign from LS in Jan
[]


Man shot at in Narkeldanga, cops say gang war
[]


TMC govt drops Jyoti Basu name from New Town Bill
[]


Kamduni case: Chargesheet to be translated in Bengali for acccused
[]


HC directs SFIO to further probe Tower Infotec chit fund scam
[]


HC stays govt order banning potato export
[]


Cong fears probe bias, says case must go to CBI
[]


Congress chief change clamour gains strength
[]


No stopping Mamata magic, TMC wins 4 of 5 civic bodies
[]


Denmark to help renovate 116 heritage buildings in Bengal
[]


'Bengal''s revenue up 21.6 pc in 5 months''
[]


Court sends Ghosh to police custody
[]


Gold biscuits seized at Kolkata airport
[]


Duty of the workplace to protect women: Meira
[]


Before arrest, Kunal put 9 persons  in the dock
[]


Biman Bose demands CBI probe into Saradha scam
[]


Civic polls: Repoll ordered in six booths of 3 municipalities
[]


Not only killer tracks, poachers another big threat for elephants
[]


SC notice to Centre, Bengal over IT Act
[]


HC seeks govt stand on illegal hotels at Tajpur beach
[]


73.45% vote in civic body polls
[]


In GJM hill tribe demand, whiff of GNLF
[]


Sudipta wanted to see Mamata as PM, she told him to project her work, claims Ghosh
[]


Postpone civic polls, Cong writes to EC
[]


Defections from Cong continue, TMC gets two more civic bodies
[]


GJM wishlist: Hill tribe status for  Gorkhas, right to collect revenue
[]


Space at Re 1 for banks willing to open branches in gram panchayats: Mamata
[]


Measures planned by govt will help economy bounce back: President
[]


One killed, three injured in Hooghly market shootout
[]


Pranab to kick off two-day Bengal tour today
[]


Centre cannot 'bulldoze' others to get things done, says Mamata
[]


GTA seeks autonomy, wants members freed
[]


Second open jail to come up in Durgapur
[]


HC seeks reply from RVNL on filling up of water bodies
[]


Mamata announces 6% extra DA, CPM stages walkout
[]


Jyoti Basu statue vandalised in Howrah
[]


Had warned people against investing in chit fund companies: TMC MP
[]


SFIO to begin probe against Tower Infotech
[]


Kolkata now gold smuggling transit point
[]


78 yrs after birth, Mark Tully to get birth certificate from KMC today
[]


Kolkata gets its first Mahila bank
[]


HC seeks affidavit from TMC leader for 'threatening'' Alipore CJM
[]


Family belies KMC claim on migrant''s return from Saudi
[]


AC stripped off charge of 2 police stations
[]


173 years on, Auckland Hotel is  reborn Lalit Great Eastern Hotel
[]


2 cold storage chains coming up in Bengal, says Anwar
[]


Didi criticises Mulayam's demand for ban on English
[]


Agents late, fail to file plea in HC against curb on potato trade
[]


Rabindra Bharti registrar's dance in class kicks up row
[]


Trinamool to bring resolution on Aadhaar cards in Assembly
[]


Jessop to withdraw closure notice: Govt
[]


Army seeks land to set up 2 stations in north Bengal
[]


Dissatisfied with police, HC asks CID to probe dowry torture case
[]


Game allows you to dress up Modi in various shades
[]


AAP to launch campaign against Modi''s  'divisive'' politics, Cong''s 'money power''
[]


Modi on Lokayukta is Asaram  talking about virginity: Jairam Ramesh
[]


Advani attends Ahmedabad 'run'', says it''s a tribute to Patel
[]


Modi flags off Run for Unity in Vadodara
[]


MoEF gives nod to GSECL''s Rs 4,100-cr Wanakbori unit
[]


'Aam Aadmi'' slogan catches up at BCA polls too
[]


BCA election ends with over 90% turnout
[]


Private school fined over Rs 12 lakh for raising fee beyond state norms
[]


AMC schools face closure due to 'poor enrolment''
[]


AAP may fight all 26 Lok Sabha seats in Gujarat
[]


Two workers die of silicosis
[]


State''s first rooftop solar project generates 1.2 mn units in 6 months
[]


Modi to flag off 'Run for Unity'' in Vadodara
[]


Sai taken to Gambhoi ashram in Sabarkantha
[]


Surat cops to quiz Asaram over bribery
[]


Cobrapost sting a conspiracy to kill my political career: MP
[]


Statue of Unity: A letter, a phone call and a pan-India grassroots movement
[]


ITI collapse: State govt announces Rs 1 lakh for victim kin
[]


S-I among 6 Narayan Sai aides held in Surat, Rs 8 crore seized
[]


Women can work in factories during night shift: Gujarat HC
[]


Surat: Diamond baron gifts cars to artisans
[]


Will suggest changes to Lokayukta Act: Buch
[]


Snoopping row: Gujarat govt says calls not tapped, police has CDRs
[]


Hit by funds crunch, Baroda hockey body seeks VMC help
[]


1.85 lakh register online to participate in Vadodara 'Run for Unity'' marathon
[]


Five injured in road mishap
[]


'IIM-A women alumni face sexual harassment at work''
[]


D P Buch to take oath as Lokayukta today
[]


State to get CNG at cheaper rate
[]


Trained by Amarnath, Sabarmati inmates to pad up against judges
[]


Sai''s wife getting threat letters: Lawyer
[]


Seven 'qualified'' for GU registrar post refuse to take the job over low salary
[]


IG promotions: Rahul Sharma ignored over his role in two probes into ''02 riots
[]


Menon fumes at art gallery for selling her works 'cheap''
[]


Jayshree Mehta elected 1st woman president of MCI
[]


BJP galvanises people for Modi''s December 15 rally in Dehradun
[]


US firm Gardner Denver to set up 1st manufacturing unit near Ahmedabad
[]


Sanjiv Bhatt, PUCL approach HC over access to intelligence documents, again
[]


Surat trader marries off  53 girls at mass wedding
[]


BCA election: Final list of candidates declared
[]


5 IAS officers promoted as Additional Chief Secretaries
[]


Sai admits to fathering child with absconding sadhvi, Jamna
[]


Sugata Sircar resigns as MD of Gujarat Gas
[]


Show to celebrate Jasuben  Shilpi''s 65th birth anniversary
[]


P C Thakur appointed new Gujarat DGP
[]


For Modi men, it''s celebration time
[]


AAP workers detained
[]


'People want a positive change under Modi''
[]


BJP retains Surat West seat
[]


Sabarmati jail inmate dies in civil  hospital, relatives blame authorities
[]


143 nominations filed for BCA election, cricket board set for face off between Amin, Gaekwad
[]


Morbi shutdown costs state, Centre Rs 200-crore
[]


Gujarat Confidential: Feet and forgiveness
[]


GMC mayor''s term ends, to hold office till November 13
[]


City goes on extended Diwali break
[]


Threefold rise in power theft among farmers in 3 years
[]


Statue of Unity: Activists write to MoEF over environment nod
[]


State to form its own golf association soon
[]


'UPA govt clean chit behind ex-top cop''s anti-Modi tirade''
[]


Nuclear scientist Kakodkar to be honoured
[]


10 injured as two groups clash
[]


Housebreakers run away with pistol, cash
[]


Doctors must fulfil govt bond to get Class I tags
[]


Housebreakers run away with pistol, cash
[]


Despite dropouts, construction of new AMC schools goes on in full swing
[]


Dinu Solanki sent to CBI custody till November 11
[]


IIMA students visit engg colleges in state to improve employability skills
[]


Beware of Cong''s 'khooni panja'', says Modi
[]


Keshubhai may return to BJP
[]


Cops foil robbery bid in Ahmedabad, arrest 5
[]


Snooping row: PIL challenges legality of probe panel in HC
[]


Cops lend a hand to visually impaired citizens crossing roads
[]


Modi writes to CMs, urges them to oppose Communal Violence Bill
[]


SC rejects GCMMF chief''s special leave plea
[]


Five held for theft of furnace oil in Rajkot
[]


To cut rising costs, hospitals switch to 'fixed-rental model''
[]


Staff shortage forcing private hospitals to hire 'doctors'' with no degrees
[]


Battle over Kachch varsity V-C appointment reaches HC
[]


Vexed with govt, Morbi ceramic units'' owners turn to Congress
[]


While on run for two months, Sai spent 22 days in Gujarat
[]


Gaekwad vs Amin: BJP
[]


VUDA awards contracts for twin buildings to BJP 'friend'', stirs row
[]


Ishrat case: CBI top brass analysing proof against IB officials
[]


In High Spirits
[]


Digvijaya says even tea vendor can be PM, BJP welcomes Modi 'praise''
[]


State govt grants academic, financial autonomy to eight engineering colleges
[]


Omar challenges Modi to debate on Article 370 'anytime, anywhere''
[]


Hostel warden accused of sexually abusing boys
[]


Sai sent to police remand till Dec 11
[]


'IAF resources need to be optimally utilised''
[]


Communal Violence Bill recipe for disaster, Modi writes to PM
[]


Smart Grid project to take off from Naroda, Deesa
[]


Govt schools in tribal districts run without maths, science teachers
[]


IITGN holds int''l conference on Emotion, Action
[]


CEPT goes on 'global search' for its Dean of Faculty of Architecture
[]


At civic hospital, 6-yr-old dies due to 'negligence''
[]


Pradeep Sharma defamation suit: Court reserves order for Dec 13
[]


BCA battle hots up as Amin, Gaekwad pull out all stops to lure voters
[]


'Gujarat scores low on educational development index''
[]


MSU student attacks senior with knife for objecting to eve-teasing on campus
[]


Ceramic units strike enters 9th day
[]


GCMMF board members pass  no-trust motion against chief
[]


Morbi ceramic units shutdown  indirectly helping China: NGO
[]


Surat visit: Kerala leaders may back out
[]


CREDAI to distribute 600 tabs to realtors
[]


GCMMF members get HC nod to hold meet against chief
[]


IIM-A professor appointed Federal Bank board chairman
[]


Modi pitches for setting up of separate commission to conduct co-op bank polls
[]


An 'out-of-box'' drive for Statue of Unity
[]


Karachi firm set to take part in Surat textile expo
[]


Over 54 pc turnout in Surat West bypoll
[]


Surat victim demands strict punishment
[]


Gujarat govt  appeals in HC against acquittal
[]


PT Usha revisits Chandigarh to look for talented athletes
[]


Cong follows Rahul''s 'one man, one post'' formula to reshuffle IT cell
[]


Ahmedabad zone ranked fourth in voluntary disclosure of service tax
[]


Brothers hacked to death: Seven held
[]


Congo fever outbreak in state doubles this year
[]


HC asks Centre to execute its order on CNG by Dec 10
[]


Kidnapping, gangrape 'accused'' attempts suicide in police lock-up
[]


Gujarat sees multifold rise in  cases of dengue, chikungunya
[]


BCA elections: 60 former Ranji players  pledge support to Samarjitsinh Gaekwad
[]


Modi got his facts wrong, BJP misleading people, says Omar
[]


Holistic approach must for healthy society: CM
[]


Cops launch NCC-like project for school kids
[]


VMC may plant rare trees in Kamatibaug
[]


After Modi''s call for debate, BJP says  no 'softening of stand'' on Article 370
[]


Abducted Surat trader''s son rescued
[]


Cong set to expand its 'cyber army'' to counter BJP''s social media campaign
[]


Scrap snooping probe committee, state Congress petitions Governor
[]


'Despite court orders, consumers  not getting cheap CNG in Gujarat''
[]


NGO to help organise 'Run for Unity''
[]


Court defers order on Zakia petition to Dec 26
[]


Students wear political mantle, draft manifestos
[]


CBI chief to decide on framing charges against IB officers
[]


After operation at hospital, 3 lose vision in one eye
[]


Morbi ceramic units to stop  tiles supply from tomorrow
[]


AP CM draws ire of Telangana ministers over portfolio re-jig
[]


It''s CITU vs TMC as Kolkata protests against death of gangrape victim
[]


Narendra Modi to address rally in Goa on Jan 12
[]


Bribe charge spells doom for Agusta, MoD scraps VVIP chopper deal
[]


ComMin to distribute blankets in relief camps of Muzaffarnagar
[]


Ramesh Chennithala joins Chandy cabinet as Home Minister
[]


Politics raises ugly head on New year, parties battle for rape victim's body
[]


City Side: Kejriwal's 48 hours and the end of time for a rape victim
[]


US says Devyani's UN request under review, can't say when it will be cleared
[]


Express 5: Some gear up to fight odds, others to realise dreams
[]


Lalu meets Sonia, says alliance on
[]


Kejriwal announces 50% power tariff cut for families consuming up to 400 units
[]


JandK minister charged with corruption, probe ordered for encroachment
[]


Delhi government may go for audit of power firms, Arvind Kejriwal meets CAG
[]


NRI's 4-seater plane lands on highway in MP due to bad weather
[]


AAP welcomes all: Kejriwal's party issues online form for Lok Sabha ticket seekers
[]


Arvind Kejriwal gets his man, S K Srivastava to be new chief secretary of Delhi
[]


Gujarat riots: Nanavati Commission gets extension till June 30 to submit report
[]


Arup Raha takes over as Indian Air Force chief
[]


Student attacked in Australia: One suspect held, Indian Consulate in touch with kin
[]


PMO junks speculation, says Manmohan Singh will complete his tenure
[]


Restaurants and bars in Mumbai to remain open till 5 am on New Year eve: High Court
[]


To please Hindu vote bank, Chandy set to induct Chennithala into Cabinet
[]


US says no goof up in Khobragrade case, strength of fraud 'very strong'
[]


Rs 870.47: This is what Delhi users will pay if they exceed AAP's 20,000 L free water limit
[]


US to proceed with Devyani prosecution, does not want to affect ties with India
[]


Express 5: A worrisome report card and some legislators all worried
[]


Bihar: Villagers kill 12-year-old boy for stealing phone recharge voucher, gutkha
[]


Maharashtra: Decision on AAP-SSS tie-up for 2014 polls next week
[]


Vedic varsity chancellor in  3-day custody in rape case
[]


Uddhav Thackeray calls Arvind Kejriwal a snake charmer, says he is arrogant
[]


Kejriwal's AAP forms task force to  win the trust of Muslims
[]


Explained: The second coming of Kamtapur Liberation Organisation
[]


Manmohan condemns terror attack in Russia as 'ghastly', writes to Putin
[]


Bhopal: Maharishi Vidya Mandir group chairman arrested for allegedly raping ex-employee
[]


MHA awaits Akhilesh reply on children's deaths in Muzaffarnagar relief camps
[]


Delhi records coldest day in a decade, evening rains add to chill
[]


Air Marshal Arup Raha to take over as Air Force chief on Tuesday
[]


2002 Gujarat riots: Nanavati Commission seeks 'some more time' to submit report
[]


Snooping controversy: Guj panel summons website, asks to file affidavit by Jan 15
[]


Caught on camera: Akhilesh Yadav's minister slaps youth in Varanasi
[]


West Bengal: KPP central committee general secretary arrested for blast
[]


Ration meant for flood-hit rotting in Uttarakhand godowns
[]


Two bombs explode at railway track near Katihar, two others recovered
[]


Muzaffarnagar riots: 245 persons arrested so far
[]


Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is unwell, skips office
[]


AAP keeps word, Kejriwal government opens freebie floodgates: 667 litres daily
[]


Jammu and Kashmir: Samba terror attack; Pakistan boy held
[]


Maharashtra: Sharad Pawar to finalise candidates for 22 LS seats in Jan meeting
[]


Express 5: Taxmen take on Tejpal and two sides of AAP's urban victory
[]


Sibal: Too late for Modi to say he was shaken
[]


They're not sure who or why but Lalu of old finds willing listeners in relief camp
[]


Modi talks development, gives Ranchi example of Chhattisgarh
[]


Religious leaders oppose govt's stand on homosexuality
[]


Curtains down on 'Dilli ke Pakwaan' food-fest
[]


Congress, AAP hit out at Gadkari over 'deal' remarks
[]


Too late for Narendra Modi to express pain over 2002 riots: Kapil Sibal
[]


International drug cartel worth Rs 150 crore busted; 49kg drug recovered
[]


Adarsh report: Milind Deora seeks debate in Maharashtra legislature
[]


Narendra Modi questions Jharkhand's poverty
[]


Three Maoists arrested, six weapons seized
[]


Centre mulls US$ 3bn fund to give education to Muslims
[]


One arrested in connection with Jalpaiguri blast
[]


Rediscovering Sam Manekshaw
[]


'US may be violating own laws on wages for its Indian staff'
[]


Youth held for cheating people in the name of AAP membership
[]


Narendra Modi, Arvind Kejriwal nothing in front of Rahul Gandhi: Lalu Prasad Yadav
[]


Strong Indian response shocks US officials
[]


Sexual assault case: Govt to send Presidential reference this week for probe against Justice Ganguly
[]


Rahul Gandhi only coming out with "akashwani" : Narendra Modi at Ranchi rally
[]


Government request to remove political content worrying, says Google
[]


Sri Lankan Navy arrests 22 TN fishermen, tension prevails in coastal areas
[]


Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal seeks 10 days to resolve problems of people in Delhi
[]


After Rahul Gandhi, Lalu Yadav to meet Muzaffarnagar riot victims, visit relief camps
[]


Best of Express: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's first day in office
[]


Big Picture: Looking back at 2013
[]


New Delhi CM sings, makes them a promise: We formed govt to give it back to janata
[]


Adarsh panel report: Chavan ready to roll back decision
[]


Jharkhand beefs up security for Modi rally
[]


Bangalore train fire: Born on same day, singers died together
[]


Uttarakhand Disasters: 'I want my children to become doctors or engineers'
[]


From 'nice guy' at IIT to Delhi CM, meet those who knew Arvind Kejriwal before the world did
[]


This is what AAP's new Delhi cabinet looks like
[]


Major arms haul in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir
[]


Govt not taking steps to avoid rail mishaps: Jaganmohan Reddy
[]


5 dead, 32 injured in Karna road accident
[]


All measures taken to ensure no deaths at relief camps: Uttar Pradesh govt
[]


A deal was struck between Aam Aadmi Party and Congress: Nitin Gadkari
[]


Congress hits back on bureaucrat-turned BJP leader R K Singh
[]


A sea of white at Ramlila Ground
[]


Left welcomes Kejriwal govt but cautious about its stability
[]


Left welcomes Kejriwal govt but cautious about its stability
[]


No need for Chavan to resign: Maha Congress Chief
[]


Chronology of major rail mishaps in last 10 years
[]


Rahul Gandhi's response to Adarsh just manufactured dissent: Arun Jaitley
[]


Congress, BJP, Left congratulate CM Kejriwal
[]


Prime Minister calls up Arvind Kejriwal to wish him
[]


Parties demand Rs 5,000 crore as Phailin assistance to Odisha
[]


Modi's remarks over 2002 riots an image makeover strategy: Ambika Soni
[]


Kejriwal allocates portfolios, retains power, finance
[]


Female whale shark satellite-tagged off Gujarat coast
[]


Sisodia- from journalist to Kejriwal's man Friday
[]


Girish Soni: AAP's Dalit face with big dreams for poor
[]


Ready to face challenges, Cong and BJP must back us, says Delhi CM Kejriwal
[]


Rakhi Birla - the youngest minister in Kejriwal's cabinet
[]


Anti-Naxal operations on in remote areas of Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh
[]


UGC should urgently look into faculty crunch: Manmohan Singh
[]


After Rahul frowns on Maharashtra, Sonia hints Adarsh decision may be reconsidered
[]


Aam Aadmi Party CM Arvind Kejriwal, a mascot of unconventional politics
[]


Big challenge lies ahead, but determined to fight: Sonia Gandhi
[]


Anna writes to Kejriwal. Wishes him best luck
[]


Kejriwal takes oath as Delhi CM, keeps Home, Finance and Vigilance
[]


Security tightened at Kausambi station due to Arvind Kejriwal's visit
[]


Kejriwal to become Delhi's youngest CM today, to take oath at Ramlila Maidan
[]


Andhra Pradesh: Toll rises to 26 in Nanded Express train fire
[]


This time Rahul frowns on his own state govt: 'Revisit Adarsh report'
[]


Move to plots you bought, UP begins clearing riot camps
[]


Will bring the golden era back: Mamata
[]


kolkata Confidential
[]


Lifer found hanging in Presidency Jail
[]


'Investors'' lack of will in completing projects a concern''
[]


Salt peppers TMC-Oppn verbal duel
[]


Salt peppers TMC-Oppn verbal duel
[]


Salt peppers TMC-Oppn verbal duel
[]


Enclave inhabitants to move SC on Nov 23
[]


Elephant death toll rises to six
[]


Adhir''s bail extended, to campaign for civic polls
[]


On talks table: No Gorkhaland, only GTA projects
[]


Short Street case: Rs 82 lakh seized from realtor''s locker
[]


Infrasonic waves to keep tuskers away from tracks
[]


Now, panic buying of salt in north Bengal
[]


Doctors, retd judges line up at BJP office for LS ticket
[]


City Briefs
[]


Musical light show planned at four tourist spots
[]


One dead, 2 injured in Lake Town shooting
[]


Short Street: IO transferred
[]


Tusker deaths on killer tracks spark blamegame
[]


Not invited to Great Eastern relaunch, former CM who allowed its divestment
[]


Debt-burdened Bengal seeks Rs 2.5 lakh cr relief package
[]


Kolkata trip a privilege, says British PM Cameron
[]


Victoria vada for British PM
[]


Govt told to file affidavit  on ex-DGP as rights panel member
[]


HC seeks govt reply on JU prof's plea on relief
[]


David Cameron to meet Mamata Banerjee during Kolkata visit today
[]


Teacher held for raping 12-yr-old
[]


Mamata sets up five-member committee for speedy clearance of industrial projects
[]


Sudipta Sen wants special court to hear all cases against him
[]


Tatas want to retain Singur land: 'will return to Bengal for expansion''
[]


Speaker in dilemma over inviting Buddha
[]


In times of pricey potatoes, locals loot Malda market
[]


British PM to visit Kolkata on Nov 14
[]


Man who led  protest against TMC leader''s brewery found dead
[]


Tatas cannot come to Singur through lawyers, says Partha
[]


Mumbai firm had asked 'mystery' Kolkata bizman to get plot vacated
[]


Two killed over property dispute
[]


State allows potato export but with rider
[]


Murder convicts perform at KIFF event
[]


Two many claimants for Rs 50-cr prime property
[]


Star-studded beginning for Kolkata film festival
[]


In run up to polls, Shivpal to manage Samajwadi Party
[]


UP to tweak minority girls aid scheme to add more beneficiaries
[]


Summit brings donors, NGOs together
[]


Mamata guards her potatoes, Orissa on a slow burn
[]


Mamata takes a dig at Moily''s 'Bus Day'' proposal
[]


TMC leader threatens again, gets Mukul Roy''s support
[]


Buddha mocks Modi''s praise for Mamata
[]


Bill to rename Rajarhat New Town likely to be tabled this session
[]


Newborn dies in hospital after fall
[]


A teacher and more
[]


First time after Singur, a TMC minister visits Tata Group unit
[]


HC: Sell Tower Infotec assets to pay depositors
[]


Briefly State: Gurung acquitted in three cases
[]


PCC chief slams CM on poor Aadhaar coverage
[]


Mamata gifts her painting to Sachin Tendulkar
[]


1,100 truckloads stabilise potato market in state
[]


Stripped of ministry, Roy says Didi did right by removing him
[]


Congress stalwart Dasmunsi''s younger brother joins TMC
[]


Will chop off hands of Congmen who tear Mamata hoardings: TMC leader
[]


At Eden Gardens, 'Shami, Shami'' takes over from 'Sachin, Sachin''
[]


Biggest hydro project in Arunachal inaugurated by PM, killed by his govt
[]


PM''s wife is first SPG protectee to have women commandos
[]


Pratibha Patil denies claim by V K Singh: didn't tell him not to quit
[]


In Anand''s chess lab: computers, cashew, chocolates, Coldplay
[]


Congress fighting me with CBI and Indian Mujahideen: Modi
[]


Twin rallies widen chasm between victim kin, locals
[]


Kin of AMRI fire victims get govt jobs
[]


Yashwant punctures Modi theory: 'No state model ideal for nation''
[]


Cash subsidy announced for setting up rice mills
[]


GJM hints at supporting TMC in LS polls
[]


Teenage girl goes missing
[]


Tribal girl 'gangraped'' after parents refuse to pay extortion money
[]


Stored potatoes a cold comfort
[]


Hotel owner shoots manager
[]


Adhir granted bail in two cases
[]


To curb chit fund, Bengal launches investment scheme
[]


No SPG cover for Modi: Shinde
[]


Retreat ceremony begins at 'Wagah of the East''
[]


Case of hot potatoes: Spiralling prices cost minister Roy his job
[]


Cong wants CAG audit into Didi''s dole for para clubs
[]


Cakes, rasgullas and a menu: It won''t stop for 'The God of Cricket'' here
[]


Home ministers to open maiden Indo-Bangla retreat ceremony
[]


Fear transfer, says Kamduni protest forum teacher
[]


Suspended TMC MP meets PC, presents 'details about the case''
[]


JU prof to move HC for rights panel relief
[]


Soon, photo  I-cards must for buying acid in West Bengal
[]


Didi forces vendors to sell cheap, potato disappears from Kolkata
[]


Man beaten to death for protesting against bursting illegal crackers
[]


Man dies in custody
[]


Model code violation: Case filed against Adhir
[]


GTA to get new CEO tomorrow
[]


Cong suffers jolt, loses another civic body to TMC
[]


Sachin Tendulkar at Eden Gardens: Of memories some past, some waiting to be created
[]


Left red-faced over attacks on  party, CPM censures Mollah
[]


Lighting up lives
[]


Woman S-I alleges molestation by senior cop
[]


Deadline close but few takers  for Aadhaar-account linking
[]


Will quit LS before joining Cong: Mitra
[]


PC-Roy meet fuels new political equation talks
[]


Mobile teams to check firecracker noise levels
[]


Fresh trouble for Adhir, magistrate submits report to SEC
[]


Ad on subsidy to Aadhaar-linked LPG consumers creates panic
[]


Buddha doesn''t name Modi, says 'PM face dangerous''
[]


20 yrs after July 21 firing, probe panel to finally fix responsibility
[]


206 turtles seized at Sinthi bus depot
[]


Girl who resisted child marriage dies at destitute home
[]


Now, Didi to design Tantuja sarees to revive ailing brand
[]


Trainee nurse rape: Prime accused among 2 held
[]


'Not paid'' for their land, farmers stall Tata''s residential project
[]


Mamata bans vegetable export
[]


Third arrest in Madhyamgram gangrape case
[]


Mollah: TMC doing more  for women than Left did
[]


CPM trying to gain lost ground in Bengal: TMC
[]


Saradha cars up for sale
[]


Panchayat minister likely to meet World Bank officials
[]


Breather for Adhir, interim bail extended till Nov 16
[]


Ghosh names minister Mitra, TMC MP
[]


Girl claims gangraped twice, police say no second complaint
[]


Photo-ration cards to weed out bogus names
[]


Captive-bred rare species of turtles to be released in Sunderbans
[]


Maoists to boycott LS polls
[]


Personal enmity behind Nitish ignoring Modi security: Hussain
[]


TTE detained for sexual harassment
[]


World should follow Kolkata in teaching slum children: Hamilton
[]


Tagore misunderstood due to poor translations: Swedish scholar
[]


Rs 4,200 for each flood-affected family
[]


Modi spreading lies on free power from Narmada dam: Medha Patkar
[]


Reconcile to reality, return Singur land: Partha to Tatas
[]


Ramesh not worried about people: Partha on land Act
[]


At date with India Inc, Didi says land no problem
[]


19-yr-old trainee nurse 'abducted, gangraped''
[]


Main accused in Kamduni case arrested
[]


Shams brothers join Trinamool
[]


Saradha scam: Ghosh summoned by ED
[]


Fresh floods in East Midnapore after breach of embankment
[]


On his home turf, Adhir sends out a stern warning to TMC
[]


TMC govt has failed on all fronts: BJP
[]


Gorkhaland movement will shift to Delhi, says Gurung
[]


Mamata turns attention on KLO
[]


GJM divided over  'no-bandh call'' in hills
[]


Mamata: More scope to develop Darjeeling than Switzerland
[]


Sons of  former food minister leave Forward Bloc
[]


Incessant rains drown Kolkata
[]


With GJM leaders in TMC fold, Mamata looks to win uphill battle
[]


State Briefs:Youth lynched for extortion
[]


Ghosh interrogated for 9th time
[]


Glitch in AI Dreamliner; Kolkata-bound flight delayed by 6 hours
[]


Original text of Tagore''s Nobel nomination on display
[]


State sets up 40 outlets to sell onions at Rs 36/kg
[]


Gold price falls for 2nd day as US dollar rises
[]


Gold futures down 0.30 percent on weak global cues
[]


Gold price slips on selling, weak global cues
[]


Silver futures prices surge 0.85% on positive global cues
[]


Gold price stages smart recovery to retrace Rs 26,000 mark on heavy demand
[]


Gold price up on firm overseas cues
[]


Gold futures prices up on firm global cues
[]


Gold gains in listless trade, global cues
[]


Gold price drops to 3 year low, lures sentiment buyers
[]


Gold futures prices rebound on firm global cues
[]


Gold prices bounce from 23-month low, surges Rs 780
[]


Precious gold bounces on strong retail buying
[]


Global gold prices set for worst quarter
[]


Gold price hits 23-month low at Rs 25,650 on weak global cues
[]


Govt to reimburse Rs 719 cr to CCI for buying cotton at MSP
[]


Indian gold traders struggle to get supplies, premiums steady
[]


Gold prices up Rs 120 on low level buying, firm global cues
[]


Gold futures prices rebound on global cues, up 0.15%
[]


Gold price falls over 1 pct on stronger US dollar, Fed outlook
[]


Indian gold futures prices fall to 3-week low
[]


Gold recovers from 2-week low, up Rs 260 on fresh buying
[]


Gold price falls to three-week low, rupee fall cuts physical demand
[]


Gold price dips below Rs 28K level, tumbles Rs 620 on global cues
[]


Food min weighs 2 mt wheat exports via state agencies to address storage woes
[]


Black Sea wheat makes Asia comeback after three years
[]


Gold futures extend losses on global cues, subdued spot demand
[]


Silver futures fall below Rs 42k level, tumble 6 per cent
[]


Gold price falls to 2-month low on US Fed stimulus outlook
[]


Gold price falls on global cues; silver ends steady
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues
[]


Gold prices inches up after two-day fall, Fed eyed
[]


Gold, silver prices rebound on weak rupee
[]


Gold prices slip on weak physical demand, Fed meet eyed
[]


Gold price slips as investors await US stimulus outlook
[]


Gold prices slip as uncertainty over Fed policy weighs
[]


Gold, silver prices fall on sluggish demand, global cues
[]


Gold price edges lower for second session on stimulus fears
[]


Govt rules out further duty hike on gold imports
[]


Gold futures prices up 0.58 pc on global cues
[]


Silver futures prices up on firm global cues
[]


Gold prices extends losses as China holiday weakens support
[]


Steps to check gold imports showing results, says Mayaram
[]


Gold, silver prices slip on weak demand
[]


Gold prices up Rs 415 as rupee slumps to new lows
[]


Gold import may dip to a third, buyers see sense
[]


Weak Indian rupee fuels gold, silver prices
[]


Gold pricea up Rs 100, silver by Rs 185 on low level buying, Asian cues
[]


Is gold losing sheen?
[]


Gold prices down by Rs 300, silver by Rs 1,500 on low offtake
[]


Gold price to soar after hike in import duty, says WGC
[]


Gold prices slip as India's import duty hike stokes demand worries
[]


Gold import could drop 10% as agencies plan cuts
[]


Gold price rebounds on local buying support, silver ends flat
[]


Gold, silver prices ease on fall in demand, weak global trend
[]


Gold softens on weak buying support, silver slumps
[]


Gold prices up by Rs 245 on stockists support, firm global trend
[]


Gold price up by Rs 75, silver by 380 on firm global cues
[]


Gold futures prices up on global cues
[]


Govt hikes import tariff value of gold to $459/10 grams
[]


Gold prices up Rs 310 on stockists buying, firming global trend
[]


Gold prices hit 2-week top on hopes Fed stimulus will stay
[]


Gold price hits 2-week high, demand stays muted
[]


Gold price hits 1-week high as Asian shares tumble
[]


Gold imports may hit record 400 tonne in June quarter
[]


Gold prices gain on firming global trend
[]


Gold price gains on China demand,  ETF outflows persist
[]


Upward trajectory in stocks, dollar has gold price slipping
[]


Gold, silver slump on subdued demand, weak global sentiment
[]


Gold prices firm as US dollar, stocks slip
[]


Delhi, Bangkok to take up gold import irregularities
[]


Gold extends gains on good buying support, silver firms up
[]


Gold prices up by Rs 100 on scattered buying
[]


Gold futures prices up on global cues
[]


Gold prices edges lower on stronger US dollar, stocks
[]


Indian gold premiums ease as supplies rise
[]


Gold down by Rs 20 on sustained selling, weak global cues
[]


Gold prices rise 0.81% on global cues
[]


Gold price stages smart recovery to retrace 26k level
[]


Gold price recovers from 21-month lows, jump sharply by Rs 680
[]


Gold price recovers from 21-month lows, jumps by Rs 680
[]


Gold futures prices recover on global cues
[]


Gold jewellers face shortage of stocks, premiums still high
[]


Gold prices fall by 1.54% in futures trade
[]


Gold price falls on stockists selling, global cues
[]


Gold price falls on stockists selling, global cues
[]


Gold price edges higher on better retail off-take; silver recovers
[]


Gold futures prices extend losses on global cues, subdued demand
[]


Silver futures prices extend weakness, down 0.68%
[]


Gold price falls further in longest losing streak in 4 years
[]


Silver futures prices extend weakness, down 0.68%
[]


Gold futures prices extend losses on global cues, subdued demand
[]


Govt slashes import tariff value of gold, silver
[]


Gold futures prices down on global cues
[]


Gold price climbs on weaker dollar
[]


Monsoon rains to reach Kerala coast on June 3
[]


Silver prices drop on reduced offtake, global cues
[]


MMTC to refine 200 tonne gold, silver this fiscal
[]


Gold duty may go up, banks slow coin sales
[]


Gold price zooms by Rs 380 on wedding season demand, firm global cues
[]


Gold import surge in April not sustainable, India's CAD fears to fade, say analysts
[]


Gold futures price up on firm global cues
[]


Gold price rises on weaker dollar after three-day fall
[]


Gold tanks below Rs 27K; Akshaya Tritiya fails to boost buying
[]


Gold price falls by Rs 180, brisk sales seen on Askshaya Tritiya
[]


Indian gold imports jump 138 per cent to $ 7.5 bn in April
[]


Reserve Bank of India puts restrictions on gold imports by banks
[]


Gold price down 1% to near two-week low on dollar
[]


SBI Mutual Fund launches gold accumulation facility
[]


Gold price declines on global cues in Delhi, silver ends steady
[]


Bullion India offers gold, silver investment feature online
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues, profit-booking
[]


Gold price extends losses on sluggish demand, silver finds support
[]


Gold futures prices recover on firm Asian cues
[]


Gold price recovers on heavy buying, silver extends gain
[]


Gold falls below Rs 27k mark on consistent selling
[]


Gold price ends steady in thin trade, silver gains
[]


Gold price rises 1 per cent, holds near one-week high
[]


Indian gold traders retreat as prices at near 2-week high
[]


'Panic buying' can drive gold price to $1,500-$1,525
[]


Gold, silver prices spurt on strong demand, seasonal off-take
[]


Gold, silver demand powers commodity bourses turnover 53%
[]


Gold price regains Rs 28,000-mark on strong global demand
[]


Gold demand skyrockets in India, importing banks struggle
[]


Gold rises to 1-week high, central bank purchases aid
[]


Gold price dips modestly in dull trade, silver slips further
[]


Gold price rebounds on demand but outlook clouded by lower investment
[]


After overnight surge, Gold price eases on lacklustre trade, silver drops
[]


Gold imports to fall 20%: Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council
[]


Gold ticks up to near 1-week high, but investors still cautious
[]


Gold price surges on heavy demand, silver also gains
[]


Indian gold traders pick bargains fearing price rise
[]


Gold prices expected to rebound, says PHD Chamber
[]


Tough times ahead as gold slide flashes warning signs for global economy
[]


Gold price consolidation triggers more physical buying in India
[]


Gold imports to rise by 20% in Apr-June to about 183.6 ton
[]


Gold snaps losing streak rebounds from 20-month low on fresh buying, global cues
[]


Gold falls 1% as investors cut exposure
[]


Modi opens up on the pain of riots, mainly his own
[]


NDMC top brass get a feel of new govt: Kejriwal questions them, in public
[]


Clean chit to Modi: Magistrate relied on SIT lawyer arguments
[]


First Person Second Draft: Diplomatic, undiplomatic... My 
very Indian Foreign Service
[]


Machil victims' families say will rejoice only when the killers are punished
[]


Modi's comment does not change reality of Gujarat riots: Congress
[]


Arvind  Kejriwal  a man of one-shot triumphs
[]


Court's clean chit to Narendra Modi a slap on Nitish's face: Sushil Modi
[]


High Court relief to woman in rape case against Narayan Sai
[]


West Bengal: KLO denies involvement in Jalpaiguri blast, warns police
[]


Muzaffarnagar riots: Relief camps inmates to be shifted to govt buildings
[]


Loose cannons of 2013: Public figures who courted controversies with their quotes
[]


Rahul Gandhi tears into Maharashtra govt for rejecting Adarsh scam report
[]


AAP govt will collapse soon under its own contradictions: BJP
[]


Tharoor PETA's 'person of the year'
[]


Full text of Narendra Modi's blog on Gujarat riots
[]


Wives of disappeared persons in Kashmir can remarry, rule scholars
[]


Narendra Modi opens up on the pain of riots, mainly his own
[]


Lesson for UP bureaucrats: Yes, people do die of cold. Here is how
[]


UP official's remarks draw BJP, Congress ire
[]


Uttar Pradesh: Kidnapped girl found, family alleges MLA's involvement
[]


Man sentenced to life imprisonment for raping Spanish woman in Mumbai
[]


Officials should keep a check on what they say: CM Akhilesh Yadav
[]


Deaths at relief camps: No one could die of cold, says UP official
[]


Snoopgate inquiry a genuine need: Congress
[]


Youth slits wrist at Arvind Kejriwal's Janta Darbar
[]


Tamil Nadu: 35 crew members of US ship get conditional bail
[]


Arvind Kejriwal, AAP MLAs to take metro train to swearing-in venue
[]


Rahul Gandhi holds strategy session with top leaders, Chief Ministers
[]


West Bengal: Detailed report sought, forensic team to visit Jalpaiguri
[]


CM designate Kejriwal cries foul as govt hikes CNG prices in Delhi
[]


Zakia Jafri's legal fight: A time line
[]


Express 5: The right terms in a judgment and the wrong accused in a probe
[]


Court rejects Zakia''s protest petition against his SIT clean chit in riots
[]


2002 riots: 'Ethnic cleansing, genocide are foreign terms... cannot be considered'
[]


2 years later, CBI files closure report in Pune land 'scam''
[]


Criticism apart, Karnataka CM, MLAs say foreign tour is on
[]


MNS senior leader Atul Sarpotdar passes away
[]


Gujarat BJP hails court's verdict on Modi, demands apology from those who 'misled' judiciary
[]


West Bengal: Five killed, 9 hurt in bomb blast in Jalpaiguri
[]


34 children died in Muzaffarnagar riot relief camps, admits Uttar Pradesh
[]


No vendetta, other snooping cases will be probed too: Sushilkumar Shinde
[]


Probe order political vindictiveness, an attack on Centre, State ties, says BJP
[]


Himachal HC orders complete ban on junk food items, wafers and Kurkure in state
[]


Court order a moral victory for Narendra Modi, party: BJP
[]


Not 'disheartened' Zakia to appeal in higher court
[]


Jeep runs into school building on Gwalior-Jhansi road, 6 dead
[]


Truth alone triumphs, tweets Modi after SC relief in Gujarat riots case
[]


Devyani Khobragade had full diplomatic immunity at the time of arrest
[]


Cold wave continues in UP, Najibabad coldest at 1.8 degrees Celsius
[]


Tehelka sexual assault case: Tarun Tejpal seeks in-camera hearing of bail plea
[]


Snoopgate: BJP attacks govt for setting up inquiry commission
[]


Panel for judges' appointment to get constitutional status as Cabinet gives nod
[]


Snoopgate: Digvijaya Singh hails setting up of inquiry commission
[]


Bihar: Four bogies of passenger train derail, no injuries
[]


Anna Hazare unwell, not to attend Kejriwal's swearing-in ceremony
[]


UPA approves probe into Gujarat snoop case, heat on Modi's aide Amit Shah
[]


West Bengal NUJS dissociates itself from Justice A K Ganguly
[]


Alleged visa fraud not necessarily a grave crime: US attorney
[]


I am the first CM who wants honest officials, all others look for corrupt people: Kejriwal
[]


Telangana, Muzaffarnagar riots kept Home Ministry busy in 2013
[]


Jammu and Kashmir: LeT Militant killed in encounter
[]


Express 5: A reminder for the Army and some rewritten military history
[]


Ad Mad World: Companies move beyond tech, focus on emotion and human connect
[]


This isn't bail, we are still living in  jail, says Soni Sori, 'exiled'' in Delhi
[]


In the five new assemblies, women outnumbered 8 to 1
[]


Gujarat riots: Court rejects Zakia's plea against SIT clean chit to Modi
[]


Sexual assault case: NUJS faculty demands dissociation from Justice Ganguly
[]


Bright Christmas in north but chill tightens grip
[]


Delhi CM designate Arvind Kejriwal promises Jan Lokpal Bill within 15 days
[]


Employment of domestic help on agenda for talks with India: US
[]


Machil fake encounter: NC welcomes court martial proceedings by Army
[]


Rajnath Singh to inaugurate Nitin Gadkari's 'Agrovision'
[]


Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee turns 89; Modi, Advani greet him
[]


US officials made 'serious' mistake in Devyani Khobragade's arrest: Lawyer
[]


Rewind: A look back at 2010 Machil fake encounter case
[]


Six Army men face court martial in 2010 Machchil fake encounter case
[]


Arvind Kejriwal to become Delhi CM on Dec 28, has to prove majority by Jan 03
[]


Trainee pilot from Uran Academy killed in Pachmarhi crash
[]


Armed Maoists, including women, blow up government building in Odisha
[]


Gay sex, convicted lawmakers, coal issues engaged SC in 2013
[]


Cong: 2 MLAs against backing AAP, Lovely fires off letter
[]


After Delhi, AAP firms up plan for Lok Sabha
[]


Kejriwal denies rift with Binny over Cabinet berth, AAP calls it media creation
[]


Express 5: A snoop case from Gujarat and a spoof from Taiwan
[]


Gujarat government 'snoop' case: UPA prepares ground for a probe
[]


Mumbai: Bahrain Consul General booked for assault, molestation of society manager
[]


Boost for Jaitapur n-project: 61 pc opt for new land compensation deal
[]


Setback to NDA, Marandi goes with JD(U)
[]


Don't worry about Maharashtra, Shiv Sena tells Narendra Modi
[]


Ending VIP culture: After 'Z' cover, Kejriwal refuses govt bungalow, security by UP Police
[]


Naval warship INS Talwar collides with fishing trawler, four injured
[]


Will watch how AAP controls price rise: Sharad Pawar
[]


Devyani arrest case fallout: India withdraws ID cards of US Consulates
[]


India, Pakistan DGMOs break the 14-year-old ice
[]


Anna not invited to Kejriwal's oath-taking ceremony
[]


Dissent in AAP before govt formation: Arvind Kejriwal picks his six, upsets Binny
[]


Congress split over support to AAP, some say 'not right''
[]


College girl alleges rape by students' union president, sets herself afire
[]


Prakash Karat meets Akhilesh Yadav to raise issue of riot-hit victims
[]


SIMI activist who had escaped from jail arrested in MP
[]


Arvind Kejriwal goes public, sets terms for AAP's minority government in Delhi
[]


Sexual assault case: Intern dismisses Ganguly's charge, can seek 'appropriate proceedings''
[]


Express 5: Why Jayanthi Natarajan lost her job and why Justice Ganguly might
[]


Diplomat arrest case: Curbs cast shadow on Christmas for US diplomats
[]


Families of Patna blast accused invited to Modi's Ranchi rally
[]


Delhi gets ready for Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal
[]


Nobody should feel scared in secular India, says Rahul Gandhi
[]


Anna Hazare''s advice to Arvind Kejriwal: Run government well
[]


Devyani to skip pre-trial court appearance as New Delhi shields her with UN papers
[]


Kejriwal sets agenda before swearing in as CM: Won't take 'Z' security cover
[]


India successfully test fires nuclear-capable Agni-III missile with 3000-km range
[]


Fleeing maids nothing new for Indian diplomats in US
[]


Prashant Bhushan sends a warning: AAP's govt in Delhi 'may not last long'
[]


Kejriwal to be youngest CM of Delhi as AAP joins hands with Congress to form govt
[]


Modi mobile phone covers hit Ludhiana markets
[]


17-year-old Bharuch athlete gives four kids hope to run the glory mile
[]


In CEPT, 30 artisans join hands with students to craft innovative ideas
[]


In BCA , it''s Gaekwad vs ex-cricketers now
[]


'Modi lying or ill informed''
[]


'Teen helped IAF to rescue couple during floods''
[]


Govt starts repair work at Vasana barrage for a flowing Sabarmati
[]


Court likely to pronounce order today on Zakia plea
[]


SU panel suggests use of CCTV cameras in examination halls
[]


Cop sent to 14-day judicial custody for 'kidnap, rape''
[]


12 Gujarat officers in UP to promote Modi's Run for Unity
[]


Experts hope for 'stable, decisive'' govt
[]


Project delays hurting growth: C Rangarajan
[]


In final lap, Modi leads BJP charge: No crowds, so Rahul quit rallies
[]


Royal Gaekwad family on temple facelift drive
[]


HC asks state govt to keep a tab on pvt blood banks
[]


Bhatt ceased to be a HC judge since Jan ''95: Website
[]


Snooping row: Sugnya Bhatt takes charge of inquiry panel
[]


Cong leader, 80 others join BJP
[]


Godhra train carnage: 1 more accused acquitted
[]


2009 hooch tragedy: HC says govt should table panel reports in Assembly
[]


Patan gangrape: HC confirms life term to 5 accused teachers
[]


C Rangarajan hopes for 'stable and decisive' govt after Lok Sabha polls
[]


Vadodara cops release footage of teenage thief
[]


BRTS to open new routes
[]


Sansrod cow slaughter case: 7 held
[]


HC admits GCMMF chief''s plea, to hear it on Dec 23
[]


State govt, NGO teams probe Dalit ostracisation in Mehsana village
[]


VMC demolishes over 250 hutments to build garden
[]


15th edition of 'Confluence'' held at IIM-A
[]


Impossible to supply PNG any cheaper to ceramic units, says govt
[]


Real estate projects to face delay if shutdown in Morbi continues
[]


D P Buch appointed new Lokayukta
[]


Chair Modi sat on gets Rs 2 lakh bid
[]


Woman 'forced'' into prostitution
[]


Ishrat case: SC asks CBI to reply to Amin''s bail plea
[]


Cong complains to EC over Modi''s 'poison'' remark
[]


Women Cong leaders want Modi to quit
[]


Ahead of polling, Modi show  of strength on Gehlot turf
[]


Shah conspired to kill me: JD(U) MLA
[]


17 child labourers rescued from Rajkot factory
[]


IMD plans localised forecast in Gujarati, alerts on FM, SMS
[]


Project woman architect was eyeing set to begin without her
[]


Commoners to take on crorepatis in Surat-West bypoll on December 4
[]


State govt to review decision on tribal certificates to Rathwas
[]


Vaghela urges state govt to disband Shah Commission
[]


Two Pakistanis held in Rajkot for 'forging signatures'' to get fellow nationals into India
[]


Gujarat Confidential: Party platform
[]


Babu Bajrangi gets 10-day interim bail
[]


Sai aide granted bail
[]


Vadodara gears up for Run for Unity, one lakh may participate
[]


'Won''t allow it to be whitewashed''
[]


Gujarat police asks Centre to ensure better roads to prevent attack on Modi
[]


Kutch activist seeks criminal cases against Modi, Amit Shah
[]


With Modi eyeing PM chair, state PR contract put on hold
[]


AMC opens public booking of Tagore Hall
[]


Biz brains to create winning manifestos for political parties
[]


Councillor for action against VMC men over water supply
[]


'Modi positioned himself as middle-class icon''
[]


Over 600 ceramic units threaten shutdown over rise in PNG price
[]


Surat cops to get copy of Sai bail plea to verify signature
[]


Jethava murder: CBI gets nod to quiz suspended cop with Solanki
[]


Vadodara lawyer fights legal battle against colleague for 'sexual assault''
[]


Sadiq Jamal encounter: CBI names 4 Mumbai cops
[]


Disappointed with Centre''s inaction in snooping scam, says Modhwadia
[]


Modi govt recommends ex-HC judge Buch for state Lokayukta
[]


Sai fixation
[]


BJP workers from state to push  for party''s win in Rajasthan, MP
[]


CBI urges SC to transfer Tulsiram case to Mumbai
[]


Amar Chitra Katha launches biographical comics to mark Kurien''s birth anniversary
[]


IIM-A among top 39 elite B-schools in the world
[]


Lax security at Modi''s office, 2 cops suspended
[]


Snooping row: Commission by Modi govt to check 'authenticity and possible conspiracy''
[]


It''s a save Modi  panel, says Cong
[]


Modi shortlisted by Time for Person of the Year title
[]


Cambay project puts Gujarat on global shale gas map
[]


AMC school board goes tech-savvy,  e-mails set to replace postal mails
[]


Two brothers killed inand#8200;Rajkot over land dispute
[]


Man kidnapped for 'cheating'', rescued
[]


Seven Asaram aides charged with abetting  two children''s murder at Motera ashram
[]


After protests, AMC not to touch Behrampura mosque
[]


U-16 cricket tournament starts in Vadodara today
[]


HC reserves order on GCMMF chief''s plea
[]


'Asaram son could have changed his appearance''
[]


'The opposition to GM crops is not based on science... There is no substantiated case of a health impact, even so much as a headache''
[]


Protest rally in Morbi against PNG price hike
[]


In next Assembly session, state govt may go for vote-on-account
[]


Dahod village observes bandh to protest police inaction
[]


Solanki''s judicial custody extended till Dec 9
[]


GPP files FIR against cops for 'misbehaving'' with woman protester
[]


State sets up panel to probe snooping row
[]


Cong opposes AMC plan to demolish parts of Bava Louloui Masjid
[]


Vintage cars roar on Ahmedabad roads
[]


Civic body to use recycled sewage water for gardens
[]


'Cong using disgruntled officers to target Modi''
[]


Narendra Modi throws poison barb back at Sonia, attacks Rahul
[]


State BJP accuses Modhwadia of model code violation, asks EC to take action
[]


Governor skips Saurashtra University convocation
[]


Blasts undertrials allege assault in jail
[]


Cong spokesman in V-C search panel
[]


Absconding Sai aide''s anticipatory bail plea rejected
[]


AMC to launch housing schemes for LIG, EWS
[]


Moily set to visit nation''s first shale gas well on Tuesday
[]


9 women protesting against bad roads in Ahmedabad detained
[]


Cong MP questions Modi''s 'silence''
[]


Gujarat BJP denies 'favour'' to firm owned by woman kin
[]


Back with Shehzada jibe, Modi says it is a battle of two ideas
[]


Tata Motors may use Nano plant  at Sanand to manufacture other cars
[]


For 'women informers'', CID goes to school, colleges to train
[]


State govt gets 50,000 copies of 41-year-old biography reprinted
[]


GPCC minority cell president resigns
[]


Murder of angadia firm owner''s mother: Police solve whodunit
[]


Lioness found dead near Gir Wildlife Sanctuary
[]


Pak singer''s concert cancelled
[]


Radadiya, others changed road plan to save their lands: PIL
[]


Cong promoting pink revolution by encouraging meat exports, says CM
[]


Surat youth, parents held for 'rape, atrocity''
[]


Snooping row: Woman shot to fame through a garden project
[]


Health(y) competition
[]


To ease traffic logjam, AMC plans flyover at Shyamal junction
[]


Zadaphia raises concern over scaling down of his security
[]


2 AAI officers arrested for taking 'bribe'' in Rajkot
[]


Vadodara royals demolish dilapidated Bakul Bunglow
[]


Court rejects Sai''s anticipatory bail plea
[]


At rally, Modi flaunts Gujarat model to target Akhilesh govt
[]


Surveillance operation didn''t follow due procedure
[]


Firm owned by woman''s brothers  got project on merit: Govt officials
[]


Bhatt writes to CM, demands high security
[]


After threat from 'reporter'', Modi  office restricts scribes'' movement
[]


Woman watched at home too: Shah tapes
[]


VHP members stir against Pak singer''s concert, detained
[]


BJP Mahila Morcha defends Modi, Shah
[]


Modi goofs up, again, mispronounces first name of Mahatma Gandhi as Mohanlal
[]


Bus catches fire in Vadodara, passengers escape safely
[]


Bombay HC rejects Pandian bail plea in Sohrabuddin case
[]


Marriage failed due to Sai''s illegitimate child, wife tells cops
[]


Modi''s 'iron men'' to fan out across country for collecting statue tools
[]


GCMMF row: HC to hear pleas today
[]


Bangalore student wins 'Science Slam'', to  pursue gene therapy research in Germany
[]


No more bandhs in hills: GJM
[]


Priya Biscuit MD claims receiving extortion calls
[]


Top medical bodies mum on 'trendsetting'' judgment
[]


Remove guilty from CMA post: Saha
[]


32 new govt colleges to be set up in state: Basu
[]


In Darjeeling, Didi bats for development, attacks GJM
[]


Adhir seeks bail in 2012 case
[]


Trinamool aims to extend footprints  in eastern states
[]


Left Front announces anti-Modi campaign
[]


22 months on, panel begins recording statements
[]


Floods: Paddy damaged in 4 dists, 5 lakh farmers hit
[]


ED gets Sudipta''s custody
[]


Mamata to meet industrialists on October 28
[]


Back in Darjeeling, Mamata pitches for peace, development
[]


Key leader quits, joint action forum almost defunct
[]


More children go missing in Darjeeling every year: Report
[]


Mamata hopeful about Darjeeling''s future
[]


Jadavpur Univ V-C resigns
[]


WBHRC asks for guidelines in educational institutes
[]


State avoiding CBI probe to save its ministers: BJP
[]


Ex-DGP proposed as HRC member
[]


Award-winning pandals were inaccessible to differently abled
[]


In another reconciliatory move,  GJM MLAs won''t sit with Oppn
[]


'If DVC stopped releasing water, flood situation would improve''
[]


Trinamool team meets PC, demands financial relief
[]


CISF constable shoots dead senior officer
[]


Teenager killed after alleged rape
[]


Before her Darjeeling visit, GJM MLAs seek CM''s appointment
[]


Saradha scam worth Rs 2,460 cr; owner in control  of deposits: Report
[]


TMC to contest all 42 LS seats in state: Yuva chief
[]


3 more babies die in Malda hospital, toll 18
[]


Flood situation improves, water levels recede in East Midnapore
[]


Comic Connect
[]


Saradha scam: Kunal Ghosh summoned for eighth time
[]


Before 'March to Nabanna'', CPM to hold 40 trial runs
[]


Cop held for molesting colleague on duty
[]


Malda: Eleven crib deaths in 48 hours
[]


Kunal Ghosh meets SFIO officials, submits documents
[]


Tripartite meeting uncertain
[]


New book seeks to solve Netaji mystery with brother''s China claim
[]


Flood: 8 deaths reported, toll 17
[]


TMC pitches for federal front with no BJP links, but is silent on Cong ties
[]


SFIO grills Ghosh for eight hours
[]


Sundarbans: Hobbling tigress X-rayed in wild
[]


TMC rallies against rail, metro fare hike
[]


Substance abuse on rise among Kolkata youths
[]


International centre for drinking water in Kolkata
[]


Floods claim nine, govt announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia
[]


DVC nails Mamata 'lie''
[]


Jharkhand denies Mamata''s charge: 'Bengal was informed''
[]


Saradha scam: MCA summons Kunal Ghosh
[]


Bihar cops nab top Maoist in Kolkata
[]


Urban Devp ministry set to intervene over Bengal 'cycle ban''
[]


Mamata blames Jharkhand, DVC for 'man-made'' floods
[]


TMC councillor accused of murder
[]


Leaders joining TMC due to coercion tactics: Biman Bose
[]


Krishnagar civic body poll: Congress, Left members join TMC
[]


Jessica murder case: Shayan Munshi granted bail
[]


Justice Ganguly writes to CJI, says being targeted by those his orders hurt
[]


Tehelka case: Tejpal's judicial custody extended by 12 days
[]


Aam Admi Party ready to form Government in Delhi
[]


New Indian envoy to arrive amid row over diplomat's arrest
[]


Pakistan to seek bigger role for UNMOGIP at DGMOs meet tomorrow
[]


AAP to form govt in Delhi, Kejriwal to take oath as CM at Ramlila Maidan
[]


White House petition launched to drop charges against Devyani
[]


Best of Express: Bhatkal's writings, Snowden's classroom and UPA's railway reform
[]


Relief camps in very bad state, Akhilesh must act: Rahul Gandhi
[]


'If Obama sold ice cream, what''s wrong if I sold tea?''
[]


Rise above party politics and vote for India: Narendra Modi
[]


Diamond merchants rally behind Narendra Modi
[]


Surat Police takes custody of Narayan Sai in bribery case
[]


AAP set to form next govt in Delhi, Kejriwal assures his party will perform
[]


Buddhadeb says Trinamool, BJP in 'secret pact', TMC denies charge
[]


AAP to contest the upcoming Lok Sabha polls in Madhya Pradesh
[]


Ready to act on suggestions on rehabilitation of victims: Akhilesh Yadav
[]


Modi's knowledge of history still weak: NCP
[]


Samajwadi Party will fight general elections alone, says Shivpal Yadav
[]


No power can stop BJP from getting majority in LS: Rajnath Singh
[]


Amarinder writes to PM over quota to Jats, wants it extended to Punjab and other states
[]


Cong, BJP won't be able to form government post 2014 polls: CPI
[]


Shivraj Singh Chouhan resigns from Vidisha seat
[]


NDMC set for grand inauguration of refurbished Connaught Place
[]


Muzaffarnagar: Girl gangraped by 3 youths
[]


Bombay HC rejects bail of 2008 Malegaon blast accused
[]


BJP Mumbai rally: Divide and rule policy specialty of Congress, says Modi
[]


Rahul Gandhi visits riot-hit areas, tells UP govt to focus on relief camps
[]


Politicians face heat in courts, landmark verdicts in 2013
[]


AAP to decide on govt formation in Delhi by Monday morning: Arvind Kejriwal
[]


BJP will bring down inflation if it comes to power: Yashwant Sinha
[]


UN: Indian peacekeepers prevented more casualties in South Sudan
[]


Sunday Best: A compilation of Express must-reads
[]


Mumbai turns a fortress for Modi's mega rally today
[]


Shivraj Singh Chouhan inducts 23 ministers
[]


Polity, complexity, not government behind spate of problems: Sibal
[]


'We can't make a political film in India without camouflaging it'
[]


They hold a mirror to our times, Anurag and Dibakar are guests at Adda on Friday night
[]


Problem is that the majority of power lies with the Centre, says Sukhbir Singh Badal
[]


Infotech guru, Aadhaar man Nilekani at Adda tonight
[]


Express Adda with Aamir Khan: Send us your questions
[]


Express Adda with Virat Kohli: Send us your questions
[]


Express Adda with Amitabh Bachchan: Send us your questions
[]


Express Adda with Ambassadors: Send us your questions
[]


Express Adda with Viswanathan Anand
[]


Express ADDA with Shiela Dikshit, Chief Minister, Delhi
[]


Express ADDA with Madhu Jain, Suneet Varma and Tarun Tahiliani
[]


Express Adda with Ruchir Sharma
[]


Express ADDA with Fareed Zakaria
[]


Change policy environment to grow fast: Wolf
[]


Wolf sceptical on 9% growth by India
[]


Martin Wolf, tracker of financial crisis, at Express Adda
[]


Express Adda with Arun Jaitley
[]


Kamrej-Palsana stretch soon to be construction hub
['Under the new SUDA DP notification, one sq km area on both sides of the NH8 on the stipulated stretch is marked for development and all the villages falling in this area are put under SUDA area. This means SUDA will approve all the projects taking place here. Developers will get a regular Floor Space Index (FSI) of 1.8 and 0.9 of paid up FSI for the development .', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Cryptocurrency racket busted, one held
['An offence of cheating was registered by CID crime sleuths on Friday against accused Rakesh Mavani, Nikunj Savaliya, Kalpesh Lakhani, Ashok Khmabhati and Zadafiya. The accused were booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust under various sections of Indian Penal Code.', 'They were also booked under The Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act 2003 and The Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act.', 'Police investigation revealed that the accused launched Bitstrades cryptocurrency after registering their company in the United Kingdom in January 2017.', 'They opened their offices in Mota Varachha and Puna areas of the city and offered high returns and commission to investors. The accused also floated multiple websites and online trading platform.', 'The accused took 190 investors on tours to Bangkok and Singapore to earn their trust. “Majority of investors who lost money in the racket are yet to come forward. We hope that following the registration of the complaint, they will provide details of cheating about the accused to CID crime,” said a police officer of CID Crime.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Seven more test positive for swine flu
['Surat: With six new swine flu cases detected from Surat city area and one from rural area on Monday, total number of H1N1 affected patients since January had shot up to 93 with one death in city areas. The number of infected patients rose to 15 in rural area with two reported deaths.', 'Cases reported on Monday include a two-year-old male from Adajan, 45-year-old male from Rander, 60-year-old female from Rustampura, 60-year-old male from AK Road, 46-year-old male from Varachha and 54-year-old male from Amroli area of the city. A 27-year-old male from Kamrej town of Surat district tested positive for H1N1 on Monday.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


I-T dept to auction diamond firm’s share certificates worth Rs 22 lakh to recover taxes
['Surat: Income Tax department will auction Rs22 lakh worth of share certificates seized during search and seizure operations on a diamond firm’s premises some time ago to recover Rs3 crore of unpaid tax.', 'Official sources said the investigation wing of Surat’s I-T department had carried out search and seizure operations on a leading diamond firm’s premises for tax evasion of over Rs3 crore in 2012. The I-T department seized cash and jewellery worth Rs3 crore and more than 15 bank lockers. The I-T department had seized the share certificates of the diamond company in 2017. Around 21 spots including offices, jewellery and diamond units and residences of the owners in Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai were searched by the I-T sleuths.', 'An I-T official said, “The share certificates of Rs22 lakh will be auctioned on Tuesday to recover an outstanding tax amount of Rs3 crore. This is first time that an auction will be held at the I-T office here.” The diamond company is into manufacturing of polished diamonds and jewellery manufacturing.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Tapi project ready for implementation after central nod
['Bharat Dalal, city engineer, SMC, told TOI, “The approval allows us to have a widespread and dependable sewerage system in towns and villages located on the banks of the river. Wastewater of towns and villages not located on the banks will be released into drains through interceptors and diversion technique.” Thirty seven new sewage treatment plants and 50 sewage pumping stations will be set up. The recycled water will be used in industries and farms. At present, 26 sewage outlets in Surat rural areas release 46 MLD of wastewater, six sewage outlets in SUDA areas 174 MLD of wastewater and 10 sewage outlets in SMC area 150 MLD of wastewater into Tapi riverbed.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Cops register mobile snatching case one year after the incident
['SURAT: An offence of snatching of a mobile phone worth Rs15,000 was registered by cops one year after the incident at Limbayat police station in the city.', 'Like Limbayat, four few month-old offences were registered at Sarthana police station where the applications were pending, but no action taken. “In some pending cases registered at Sarthana police station, complainants did not come to police again when they were called to furnish more details. Police had registered offences after preliminary inquiry,” said a police officer at Sarthana police station.', 'Satish Sharma has instructed all police stations in the city to register offences in pending complaints related to snatching and loots after sudden rise in them. “There is an alarming rise in snatching and loot cases in the city. Hence, I ordered police to check if there were any pending applications related to these crimes. We are registering offences on such complaints. This will help us mount pressure on the gangs or individuals involved,” Sharma added.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Four women doctors bring relief to countless poor
['The doctors have been giving free medicines to women for different ailments and also creating awareness about ...', 'Other members of the team are Dr Ami Yagnik, general surgeon, Dr Deepa Patel, physician, and Dr Trupti Patel, psychiatrist.', 'The group began its health drive on January 16, 2019 and so far has covered more than 10,000 school and college-going girls in 1,500 free health check-up camps where they were examined for breast and cervical cancer and gynaecological sonography. The group has also been organizing seminars on reproductive health, menstrual health and hygiene, healthy diet and fitness for the women. The group held a health awareness seminar for 850 Adivasi girls of Rutambhara Ashramshala in Dang some time back.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Four more test H1N1 positive in district
['Twenty patients are still receiving treatment for the virus in different hospitals of the city. Condition of 16 is stated to be stable whereas three have been put on ventilator. One patient is receiving oxygen support.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


SVNIT cancels music fest to pay homage to CRPF martyrs
['Surat: Students of Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) have cancelled the annual cultural festival Sparsh as a mark of respect to over 40 CRPF personnel who attained martyrdom in a terror attack on their convoy in Jammu & Kashmir a few days ago.', 'An amount of Rs20 lakh raised by them for the four-night festival will be donated to the families of the CRPF martyrs. The festival was scheduled from February 21 to 24.', 'Top celebrities are roped in by the students to perform live in Sparsh on the campus of the institute. Many leading singers and groups have performed at the institute in the past and the event is popular even among people from outside the campus, who come to enjoy singing, dancing, DJ and celebrity nights. “Singer Jubin Nautiyal was to perform this time. His show has been cancelled after students and institute authorities dropped the event altogether,” a faculty said.', 'SVNIT students held a candlelight march- Amar Jawan Jyot Yatra- from SVNIT to Rahul Raj Mall on Saturday. The students paid tributes to soldiers through an event ‘Veero ko naman’ on Sunday. They performed on patriotic songs.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Surti girl’s science film wins award
['Government of India.', 'Ananya and her team members are students of class X of Fountainhead School.', 'Ananya’s film explains the concept of light to blind children. It was well received in the festival held recently. This was her fourth science film to be shortlisted, screened, nominated or awarded at national or international science film festivals.', 'Ananya, daughter of Dr Manish Jain, recently won first prize for her another movie ‘Principles of diffraction’ in NCERT sponsored ‘Explain the concept’ event at the annual undergraduate festival Pravega of Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. She has also participated in many national and international film festivals as child jury.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Tanker on fire holds up traffic on highway
['At around 3 pm, the loaded LPG tanker, probably coming from Maharashtra side, overturned at a crossroad near Nandigam of Valsad district. After gas started to leak from top of the tank, the vehicle caught fire and turned into a massive inferno. Fire brigade team tried to douse the blaze but gas leakage made it tough for the firefighters. "The team continued to spray water to prevent it the tanker from blasting. The fire came under control after two hours," said police.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Textile exporters sever business links with Pakistan
['Two biggest fabric markets in Pakistan- Azam cloth market in Lahore and Lucknow market in Karachi- depend on polyester fabrics, saris, lenghas and dupattas imported from Surat. Many shops in these markets have signboards that say they sell saris and dress material imported from Surat.', 'Before 2014, the MMF exports from Surat to Pakistan stood at Rs2,400 crore. The exports of MMF fabrics from Surat to Pakistan was predicted to touch Rs3,000 crore by 2018. However, latest figures of Synthetic and Rayon Textile Export Promotion Council (SRTEPC) suggest that exports between Surat and Pakistan have fallen sharply in the last couple of years and that they were less than Rs1,000 crore per annum now.', 'SRTEPC data says exports of MMF fabrics in 2016-17 stood at Rs887 crore and Rs958 crore in 2017-18. Exports of MMF fabrics in 2018-19 (till December 2018) have witnessed a sharp fall at Rs624 crore against Rs720 crore during the same period in the previous year.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Man arrested for Rs 12 lakh fraud
['Surat: A fraudster who sold two plots to a man for Rs12 lakh, but didn’t give him their possession was arrested by police here on Friday.', 'Bipin Dholariya, 44, had booked two plots in the so-called project of Vrajlal Savaliya, 40, a resident of Sarthana, in Navkar Bungalows at Naroli in Mangrol taluka of Surat district in 2013. Savaliya told Dholariya the prevailing rate for one plot was Rs6 lakh. Dholariya booked two plots and paid up the money in instalments in the next four years. However, he neither got the plots nor the money back. Dholariya registered a police complaint against the accused at Sarthana police station on Thursday.', 'A police officer said they arrested the accused from his house and will be producing him in court soon.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Two bizmen cheated of Rs 89L
['Surat: Two businessmen were cheated of Rs89 lakh in the city. The cheating complaints were registered at Salabatpura police station on Thursday. A person purchased dyeing cloth worth Rs41 lakh from a trader through a broker. He denied having received the goods when the broker committed suicide. In another case, a group of five people bought sublimation papers worth Rs47 lakh from a businessman and then shut shop and fled.', 'Police said Jagraj Kothari of Shree Balaji Prints on Ring Road sold dyeing cloth worth Rs41, 26, 742 through broker Prakash to Vastaram Solanki between July 09, 2018 and August 15, 2018. Prakash committed suicide a few months later and Solanki refused to acknowledge the deal subsequently.', 'Police said there was GST record on the goods and that they have begun investigation.', 'Vaibhav Raval, owner of Dwarkesh Texprint, and four other persons bought sublimation papers worth Rs46,98,673 used for digital printing from Dhaval Jain between July 22, 2018 and October 09, 2018, but refused to make payment for the same.', 'Police said the accused have shut shop and fled. “We will catch them soon,” they added.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


SMC hopes to earn good revenue from fresh leases for two plots
['Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) standing committee has decided to renew lease of two plots in the possession of Surat Textile Market and Sarvajanik Education Society Trust only on prevailing jantri rate. This will help it to earn an additional Rs132 crore in revenue.', 'Sarvajanik Education Society Trust (SECT) runs an experimental school on 11,951 square metre plot which belongs to the civic body but was acquired on lease. The lease of the plot expired in 1999-2000. When the lease expired, the jantri rate in the area was Rs8,000 per square metre. It will have to pay up at the rate of Rs4,000 per sq metre for a period of 50 years from 1999-2000. This totals up to Rs4.78 crore. Goplani said SECT was prepared to pay up the amount.', 'Surat Textile Market (STM) came up on 24,435 square metres of leased land 30 years ago. The prevailing jantri rate in the area was Rs52,250 per square metre. STM will have to pay up Rs128 crore to the civic body for a 50-year lease.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Three arrested raping married woman in moving car
['Mahidharpura police said the accused ran a parking contract near Limbayat in the city. The woman in her complaint registered on Wednesday stated that she had met Wasim in a marriage in May 2018 and that he had introduced himself as Rahul then. She has alleged in her police complaint that Babu alias Aftab and Wasim had earlier raped her in a hostel and she was threatened of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident. Naushad too had raped her before, she said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Commuters make mockery of police efforts to curb chaos
['Surat: City police may think that barricading Chowk Bazaar intersection for smooth flow of traffic has been a successful experiment for the last one year, but senior police officers need to be on ground to make an assessment of the real situation.', 'Commuters travelling towards Adajan using Nehru Bridge over Tapi river have been flouting traffic rules to escape half-a-kilometre detour from Mahatma Gandhi statue towards the bridge. Commuters on two-wheelers and four-wheelers use a small lane behind Andrews Library to drive their vehicles towards Nehru Bridge to avoid going full circle.', 'Since the lane behind Andrews Library is narrow, traffic coming from Nehru Bridge and menace of autorickshaws is causing traffic jams during peak hours. Police constables are deployed on main road, but they are turning a blind eye to the situation.', 'A year ago, the city police decided to divert traffic from Chowk Bazaar intersection. The traffic going toward Adajan via the Nehru Bridge has been diverted from Mahatma Gandhi statue to avoid chaos during the peak hours. The experiment was successful until the commuters started flouting the diversion rules.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Surat gets Digital India Award
['More than 600 entries from across the country were received in eight different categories for the Digital India Awards.', 'SMC had started its open data portal in October 2017 to provide IT-based services to citizens. SMC provides online data pertaining to property tax, professional tax, vehicle tax, marriage registration, birth and death registration, census information etc. It is the only civic body in the country to launch an open data portal in coordination with National Informatics Centre.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


ST employees remove clothes on second day of indefinite strike in Surat
['SURAT: Employees of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation’s (GSRTC) Surat division removed clothes and tonsured their heads on the second day of the statewide strike here on Friday.', 'More than 2,700 state transport employees in Surat division are on an indefinite strike to press for acceptance of their long-pending demands, including implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission’s recommendations by the state government. Over 3,500 trips from Surat to various destinations in the state and Maharashtra have been suspended, sources said.', 'The atmosphere at the ST’s central bus depot was charged in the afternoon after the fixed wage employees were given termination letters by GSRTC management on Friday. The employees shouted anti-government slogans and accused the management of working to break the indefinite strike.', 'PAAS convener Hardik Patel visited the striking ST employees at central bus station and assured his support to them.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Eight more test positive for swine flu
['Four patients who receiving treatment in different hospitals of the city were discharged as their condition improved. However, 18 were still under treatment in different hospitals of the city.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Gold price plunges to 20-month low, silver slides too
[]


Gold price hovers near 19-month low, bargain buying on
[]


In gold meltdown a silver lining for economy
[]


Gold price rebounds in futures trade, claws back 1% to Rs 25,906
[]


Gold price seen recovering after massive price fall
[]


Gold futures prices plunge under 26,000
[]


Gold in free fall, hits 15-month low, global sell-off persists
[]


Jewellers eye windfall as gold price falls and demand surges
[]


Silver futures prices hit below Rs 45k mark, tumble 10%
[]


Gold price sinks to 2-year low, other precious metals hit
[]


Bloodbath at bullion hub, gold price crashes to multi-year lows
[]


Gold falls below Rs 28k level in futures trade on global cues
[]


Gold prices suffer biggest ever loss on global cues
[]


Gold price dips below Rs 29k level in futures trade
[]


Gold price rebound on low level buying, global cues
[]


Gold futures prices soften on global cues
[]


Gold price bounces from 1-week low on Korea tensions
[]


Sugar prices end flat in thin trade
[]


Gold snaps two-day gains on sluggish demand, global cues
[]


Indian gold edges lower, traders seek more falls
[]


Gold price slips as fund shift seen intact, TOCOM up on yen
[]


Gold price stays near 10-mth low, U.S. jobs data in focus
[]


Gold, silver price hit new lows on selling pressure, global trend
[]


Gold, silver prices tumble on weak global cues
[]


Gold, silver prices fall on sluggish demand
[]


Gold price stretches gains as weak US data hits dollar
[]


Gold price trades just below $1,600
[]


Gold prices, silver prices down on sluggish demand
[]


Gold price rises on stockists buying, silver price remain weak
[]


Gold price ends steady, silver falls on reduced offtake
[]


Gold price defies firm dollar as Cyprus fallout supports
[]


Indian gold futures edge down on global cues, demand thin
[]


Gold price perches above $1,600/oz, euro zone worries support
[]


Gold price extends losses on weak demand, global cues; silver slips
[]


Gold price, silver price fall on sluggish demand
[]


Indian gold futures inch lower in narrow band trade
[]


Gold price edges up, after hitting 1-week low on Cyprus deal
[]


Gold ETFs unlikely to lose sheen despite fall in prices
[]


Gold price, silver price down on weak global cues
[]


Gold price, silver price up on stockists buying, firm global cues
[]


Gold price heads for biggest weekly rise in 4 months on Cyprus
[]


Gold price down Rs 120 on weak global cues
[]


Gold price upward momentum cools as Cyprus fear ebbs
[]


Gold price gains on global trend, silver retraces 55K
[]


Govt orders rev dept to stop to preferential gold imports from Thailand
[]


Food Bill: NAC member questions delay, lists out constraints
[]


Gold price up Rs 140 on stockists buying, firm global cues
[]


Gold price hovers above $1,600/oz on Cyprus concerns
[]


Gold prices, silver prices up on firm global cues
[]


Gold futures prices up on firm global cues
[]


Gold price hits 2-1/2-week high on Cyprus bailout worries
[]


Gold price snaps two-day falling trend, recovers on global cues
[]


Gold price edges up on moderate buying even as silver slips
[]


Gold price, silver price down on sustained selling
[]


Gold price lingers around $1,590/oz, US job data weighs
[]


Gold price down by Rs 10 on lack of buying support
[]


Gold price holds below $1,590 after upbeat US data
[]


Gold futures prices trade marginally lower on subdued demand
[]


Gold prices up by Rs 125 to regain Rs 30K level
[]


Gold price up by Rs 35 on sustained buying, global cues
[]


Indian gold edges higher from 8-month low
[]


Gold futures price up on global cues
[]


Silver futures price up on strong global cues
[]


Gold price sticks in range as growth hopes weigh, Asia buying supports
[]


Gold prices in India seen recovering from 8-month low - outlook
[]


Gold price up Rs 20 on fresh buying, global cues
[]


Gold bounces from 2-week low as stimulus seen continuing
[]


Gold futures prices rise on global cues
[]


Gold price bounces from two weeks low as stimulus seen to continue
[]


Gold price remains weak on sustained selling, silver recovers
[]


Gold price, silver slip in dull trade
[]


Gold imports at $42 bn during Apr-Jan
[]


Gold extends losses on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Indian gold importers await US jobs report for price direction
[]


Gulf NRI body for duty-free gold allowance based on quantity
[]


Gold prices hover near $1,580/oz, US jobs data in focus
[]


Gold price edges up on stray buying, modest recovery in silver
[]


Gold price up by Rs 40, silver by Rs 170
[]


Bullion report: Gold futures prices up on global cues
[]


Gold price struggles to pierce range, US growth hopes weigh
[]


Gold prices drifts around $1,575/oz, Wall Street rally weighs
[]


Gold price, silver regain on modest buying
[]


Gold price down by Rs 125 on sluggish demand, silver up Rs 250
[]


Silver futures prices up on strong global cues
[]


Gold price snaps 4-day decline, central bank meetings in focus
[]


Gold, silver price slip on lower demand
[]


Gold, silver prices down on sluggish demand, global cues
[]


Gold sale in Gulf to rise on limit revision for NRIs: Report
[]


Gold prices firm on Asia buying, upbeat US data weighs
[]


Gold, silver rebound on low level buying
[]


Indian Government asked to increase limit of duty free gold for NRIs
[]


Bullion report: Gold price falls further on increased selling, global cues
[]


Asia Gold: Lower prices lure buyers, India demand to pick up in April
[]


Gold prices ease 1.2% as equities soar
[]


Gold heads for 2nd week of falls as stronger dollar weighs
[]


Indian gold traders shy away from new deals as rupee weakens post budget
[]


India budget proposal on commodities futures tax may hit turnover
[]


Gold price falls on profit-selling, global cues
[]


Continue denying visa to Modi:  US resolution
[]


Star Sports files 8 FIRs against GTPL Hathway
[]


HC slaps notices on GSPC, PGVCL rights group over environment laws violation
[]


Vadodara Stock Exchange annual  general meeting adjourned till Nov 25
[]


Ahmedabad gets its first Mahila bank
[]


To boost population, Parsi leaders offer aid to youths
[]


(In)famous appearance
[]


Snooping row: Cong threatens protest if Modi, Shah don''t quit
[]


Modi has a snooping habit, I was told to tap Vaghela: Sreekumar
[]


Rahul has not seen poverty, can never understand it: Modi
[]


BCG top recruiter at IIM-A''s Summer Placement programme
[]


Gandhinagar institute to vie with Karachi centre for entrepreneurship award
[]


AMC set to open five new English-medium schools
[]


Ahmedabad to get natural gas  at same rates as Delhi, Mumbai
[]


Surat sisters rape case: HC rejects Asaram, Sai''s pleas
[]


Cong 'cyber army'' to counter Modi''s 'propaganda''
[]


Father''s letter an old one, I knew about woman: suspended IAS officer
[]


BSF approaches road institute to fence border in Gujarat
[]


NIA announces reward for info on accused
[]


Differences of opinion caused Nehru to look upon Patel as enemy: Nayar book
[]


Eye on polls, govt pushes through reforms in MNREGS
[]


Gujarat Confidential: Win-win situation
[]


Education dept to recruit 6,000 more teachers for upper primary govt schools
[]


3 held for posing as cops, raiding 'gambling den''
[]


Release of Ram-Leela cancelled at Bhavnagar cinema houses
[]


Modi lauds people of Bihar for courage
[]


BCA polls may get a bumpy ride
[]


Bhavnagar institute replants over 7,000 Jatropha uprooted by Phailin in Orissa
[]


About 65 villages get eco-sensitive tag in south Gujarat
[]


Gujarat wants solar power tariff reduced
[]


Naroda Patia riot: SIT moves HC seeking enhancement of punishment for 16 convicts
[]


Cops offer cash for tip-off on absconding Sai, aides
[]


Republican party denies inviting Modi to address leaders via video link
[]


CPM seeks court-monitored probe
[]


Cong ups the ante against Modi
[]


Modhwadia demands 'white paper'' on life and character of Modi
[]


'Poll-fatigued'' CM talks about IT role to empower the poor
[]


'Snooping allegations manipulated by Cong''
[]


Modi gets 4 more days to reply to EC notice on 'khooni panja''
[]


Activist Medha Patkar grilled in 2002 Sabarmati assault case
[]


Dalits in Mehsana village being 'ostracised''
[]


Junagadh Cong leader dismisses speculation he would switch to BJP
[]


10 lakh entries for Under-12 category in Khel Mahakumbh
[]


Surat-West seat: BJP''s Purnesh Modi to slug it out with Cong''s D L Patel
[]


'Ram-Leela' screened amid tight security
[]


Ishrat encounter case: CBI sends judicial request to Pakistan
[]


Cooker bomb 'maker'' in 4-day police custody
[]


For 'saheb'', Amit Shah used cops to snoop on woman: news portals
[]


Gujarat Confidential: Politically 'baseless''
[]


Garden murder: Cops get call records of woman friend
[]


'Meeting Modi no endorsement; after 10 years, needed a rethink''
[]


Man held with cooker bomb
[]


Heavy security for tazia immersion today
[]


Girnar Parikrama begins in Junagadh
[]


Number of women taking up rifle shooting rises two-fold
[]


Fans all eyes as Sachin takes final bow
[]


AICC minority cell chief faces opposition from party detractors
[]


With Modi on whirlwind poll tour, Patel troika calls the shots in state
[]


BJP misusing Iron Man name for vote-bank politics, says Vaghela
[]


Cameron open to meet Modi
[]


Modi''s latest: 'If Madam is ill, let the child take over'
[]


Waterlogging on farmland: HC order makes SSNNL respondent party in PIL
[]


Garden murder: Woman friend on cops radar
[]


Amdabadis kept noise pollution in check on Diwali, says GPCB
[]


Skeleton recovered from IOC''s Hazira fire site
[]


Activist files pleas to book Modi for 'breach of trust''
[]


Rathwas fear losing tribal status as 11 govt staff face suspension
[]


ABB expands base in Vadodara, adds 2 power units at Savli
[]


More security for Modi: policewomen in plainclothes
[]


Naroda Patia case: SIT not to seek  death sentence for Babu Bajrangi
[]


'I''ve never seen evidence of opinion polls influencing voters... making people go with the winner or deciding to back the underdog''
[]


Morbi ceramic units to get PNG in ration from today
[]


Conman Jadeja files 45 bail pleas
[]


Narendra Modi makes another goof-up
[]


Now, marathon to drum up support for Statue of Unity
[]


Nazarbaug Palace throws open its doors to Bohras
[]


'BJP, RSS behind all terror acts from Godhra to Patna''
[]


Maya Kodnani gets 3-month bail on medical grounds
[]


Two infants of Surat children''s home die of 'stomach-related problems''
[]


Gandhinagar institute commissions India''s first experimental fusion reactor
[]


BJP raking up 19-yr-old case to generate political capital for Modi: Sreekumar
[]


Jamnagar divorcee kidnapped, raped
[]


Fresh stir against land acquisition for proposed NH 8D bypass road
[]


Surat cop suspended for 'negligence''
[]


Jethava murder: Solanki sent to 14-day judicial custody
[]


Bisi Silva, 56, Bold Curator of Contemporary African Art, Dies
['Bisi Silva, an adventurous curator who, with her own money, founded a nonprofit art gallery and education center in Lagos, Nigeria’s largest city, that has nurtured the growth and recognition of contemporary African artists, died on Feb. 12 in a hospital there. She was 56.', 'Her sister Joke Silva, an actress, said the cause was breast cancer.', 'Ms. Silva felt that her mission was to change the way contemporary African art was being viewed from a Western perspective and to develop African artists in ways that their schools were not.', 'To fill the gaps, she created the Asiko Art School — actually a series of pop-up schools holding annual, monthlong educational gatherings in various African countries including Senegal, Ghana and Ethiopia, where artists, writers, historians, curators and teachers immersed themselves in seminars, workshops and exhibitions. The events gave Ms. Silva opportunities to evaluate artists’ work.', 'Ms. Silva believed that her exhibitions, lectures, workshops, mentoring and educational programs made a positive impact in a short time.', 'Olabisi Obafunke Silva was born in Lagos on May 29, 1962. Her father, Chief Emmanuel Afolabi Silva, was a lawyer, and her mother, Charlotte Olamide Williams, was a civil servant with the Nigerian Railway.', 'After graduating from the University of Dijon in France, where she studied languages, she earned a master’s in curating contemporary art from the Royal College of Art in London. Her thesis examined the marginalization of black artists at exhibitions in England.', 'Ms. Silva returned to Lagos in 2002, inspired by her research but disappointed that she could not find an outlet for her vision of curating contemporary African art.', 'She decided to start C.C.A, becoming its artistic director.', 'In addition to Joke Silva, she is survived by two other sisters, Olajumoke Dawodu and Ojuolape Silva; and two brothers, Olabiyi Silva and Bolaji Oladunjoye. She considered her 13 nieces and nephews her children.', 'Ms. Silva had a particular expertise in organizing photography exhibitions and in creating a library of visual arts at C.C.A.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


We Need to Talk About Colonialism, This Artist Says
['A debate this month at La Colonie, a cultural center in Paris that Mr. Attia founded in 2016.', 'Through his installations, Mr. Attia (who won the Prix Marcel Duchamp, France’s most prestigious art award, in 2016) critiques Western museums’ approach to African heritage — their tendency to undervalue, misread and misrepresent its treasures, and to view it, still, through colonial eyes. In a room at the Hayward, for example, he shows an old-fashioned vitrine full of stuffed birds, and, mixed in with them, three bird-shaped African ritual masks. This, the artist is saying, is how African artifacts were long shown in Western natural history museums: alongside animal and plant specimens.', 'Elsewhere in the Hayward exhibition is a small shelf holding two objects: an Edvard Munch art book with “The Scream” on the cover and an African mask that bears an uncanny resemblance to the howling face.', 'The exhibition opens with a video, taken with a drone, of a suburban housing project — or “open-air jailhouse,” as the artist put it — like the one where he grew up alongside many other descendants of France’s former colonial subjects.', 'By the 1990s, Mr. Attia, then in his 20s, had earned degrees in applied arts and philosophy. He then spent nearly three years in the Republic of Congo doing alternative civilian service (a substitute for France’s compulsory military service). Part of a team preparing for the opening of the country’s first national museum, in the capital, Brazzaville, he came across objects that would be on show: masks, talismans, jewelry, shields. He became aware of the spiritual dimension of these objects, he said, of the belief that they had sacred or magical powers.', 'At the same time, he started exploring his own French-Algerian and Muslim identity. In the early 2000s, he photographed transgender Algerian prostitutes who had fled civil war and persecution; images from that series are at the Hayward.', 'A few years later, he produced a series of works inspired by the Kaaba, the shrine in Mecca in whose direction Muslims turn when they pray. One of the paintings, “Black Cube II,” a work from 2005 that was exhibited in the British Museum’s “Hajj” show in 2012, shows the Kaaba as a quivering, dripping object.', 'That same year, he denounced a multivenue exhibition in Paris, “Picasso and the Masters,” for leaving out the African masks that had so profoundly influenced the Spanish artist.', 'La Colonie, near the Gare du Nord in Paris, pays for itself by turning into a bar on weekends.', 'Mr. Attia is currently working on a film with one of the descendants of a king whose throne was looted by French colonial forces and is now being given back by Mr. Macron to the state of Benin.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Dozens Dead in Nigeria as Election Results Are Delayed
['Counting votes at a polling station in Port Harcourt, southern Nigeria, on Saturday.', 'ABUJA, Nigeria — Election Day violence killed at least 39 people across Nigeria, civil society groups reported, and with ballot-counting temporarily halted and rumors flying, Nigerians were left waiting on Monday for an announcement of the winner in the presidential contest.', 'The 18-hour gap until tabulation began again late Monday morning left time for more rumors to spread about whether the delay was helping the leading candidates rig the results. At one point, members of the party of the leading challenger, Atiku Abubakar, declared victory, a notion that was far from certain.', 'Much of the violence on Saturday played out in the south of the country, in opposition strongholds where the tight election is particularly contested, according to Cheta Nwanze, head of research at SBM Intelligence, a nonpartisan group that has been critical of the government and is tracking violence based on reports from local police and media.', 'Delays have been a reigning theme of Nigeria’s presidential election, which had been scheduled to take place a week earlier. To the frustration of many voters, the national electoral commission, citing logistical issues, postponed the vote in the middle of the night, just hours before polling places were to open.', 'Both Mr. Buhari, 76, and Mr. Abubakar, 72, a businessman and former vice president, spun theories about the delay, each claiming that the commission was stalling to gain an advantage for the other camp. As early results trickled in Monday afternoon, favoring the incumbent, the fiery head of Mr. Abubakar’s political party accused Mr. Buhari’s party of tampering with results and colluding with elections officials.', 'When the vote finally took place on Saturday, most polling stations did not open until four hours after the official starting time, civil society groups reported. Some opened so late that they had to reopen on Sunday to give voters the six hours allotted to cast ballots — one reason cited by election officials for delaying the tabulation.', 'It became apparent on Sunday and Monday that violence on Election Day had been worse than originally reported.', 'One election worker was killed by a stray bullet in Rivers State, a restive region where six civilians and one soldier also died in a shootout, in a separate incident, according to civil society groups. In the same state, some election workers and police officers were taken hostage, but released unharmed, the groups said.', 'Damage caused by clashes between supporters of the governing party and followers of an opposition group, in Bebeji, in northern Nigeria, on Friday.', 'In Lagos, one of Africa’s most populous cities, violence broke out at polling places, with shots fired in the air and ballot boxes set on fire, the groups said, adding that some voters rioted when election materials did not arrive on time.', 'At a news conference Monday morning, Mr. Nwankwo was critical of Mr. Buhari’s statements that anyone caught trying to rig the vote would be killed, suggesting the message incited violence.', 'Mr. Nwankwo also criticized the deployment of the military to provide security for elections, calling the act “totally, totally unacceptable.” He noted that soldiers had been involved in the shootout in Rivers State and had blocked voters from reaching the polls in some areas.', 'He urged Britain and the United States to impose sanctions on any political figures whose actions led to deaths.', 'In a room down the hall from where Mr. Nwankwo presented his findings to the public, the African Union minutes later offered a glossier view of the elections, citing a small number of irregularities.', 'International election observers also noted that as bad as the violence was this year, prior elections have been worse. One local observer mission reported that the irregularities and issues with the election had occurred in what was a small percentage of the thousands of polling stations, which were set up to handle more than 70 million voters in Africa’s most populous nation.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Nigerians Finally Get to Vote, but Hit a Few More Snags
['Nigerians lined up to vote in the country’s presidential elections on Saturday, after a weeklong delay.', 'ABUJA, Nigeria — Nearly two hours after voting in Nigeria’s presidential election officially opened on Saturday, a poll worker grabbed Florence Michael’s thumb, ready to stamp her fingerprint so, finally, she could vote.', 'Her thumb hovered over the ink pad before he pushed her hand back and told her to wait. Again. Workers at the sidewalk polling station along Gana Street — blocks from election officials’ headquarters here in the capital, Abuja — were not quite ready for business.', 'It was yet another delay in the already delayed elections in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy, and one of many scenes of exasperation among already frustrated voters. Last weekend, officials had postponed the vote by one week, citing logistical issues. That decision came in the middle of the night, hours before polls were to open.', 'President Muhammadu Buhari, who led Nigeria under military rule in the 1980s, has promised to continue a crackdown on corruption that helped him gain office in 2015, the country’s first peaceful democratic transfer of power. He is being challenged for a second term by more than 70 candidates, including his main rival, Atiku Abubakar, a former vice president and perennial candidate.', 'Mr. Abubakar, facing allegations of corruption, has promised to create jobs — a potent pledge to an electorate consumed by concerns about unemployment — and to shore up Nigeria’s fragile economy, which is slowly recovering from a recession.', 'Worries about security, which is deteriorating in many parts of the country, hung over some areas where the tightly contested election could spark violence after results are announced as early as Monday. Both leading candidates are from the north, and many experts worried about whether a losing party would peacefully accept the results.', 'On Saturday night, Mr. Abubakar’s aides seemed to be spoiling for a fight, making allegations of irregularities before results were tabulated.', 'Analysts expected a lower turnout Saturday than if the election had taken place last weekend. Nigeria has no absentee voting, and many people must travel long distances to cast ballots in their home district where they are registered.', 'Having made that journey last weekend, many left after the vote was postponed, with no plans to return.', 'Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, cast his ballot at a polling station in Daura, Katsina State.', 'Mr. Buhari announced a drop in the price of fuel to encourage voters to travel again to vote and declared Friday a national holiday. But here in Abuja, many hotel workers did not vote because they were working double shifts to serve the hundreds of election observers in town.', 'To calm fears of voter fraud, Mr. Buhari said earlier in the week that anyone who tried to rig the vote could expect to be killed by security forces.', 'Mr. Buhari’s critics say that he has fought graft only when it helps him politically and that he has failed to deliver on his campaign promise to defeat Boko Haram, an Islamist insurgency that has ravaged the northeast of the country for almost a decade.', 'Two hours before the polls were to open at 8 a.m. Saturday, Boko Haram had already sent a chilling reminder that it is far from defeated. Bomb blasts and gunfire were reported in scattered areas across the outskirts of Maiduguri, Boko Haram’s founding city, in the northeast.', 'Residents took cover in their homes; some had been scared off from voting. Government officials initially announced to a skeptical electorate that the blasts were part of a military drill before later conceding that militants were responsible. Boko Haram’s faction loyal to the Islamic State said later that it was responsible.', 'In Rivers State, six people and one soldier were killed when troops patrolling the area on election day were ambushed, an army spokesman said.', 'In the country’s largest city, Lagos, violence broke out at several polling stations. Thugs threw bottles, injuring several people.', 'By 11:30 a.m., a quarter of polling stations across the country still had not opened, according to YIAGA Africa, a pro-democracy nonprofit group that sent 3,000 monitors into polling stations.', 'In Yobe State, YIAGA Africa said, observers weren’t allowed to perform their official duties, and in Rivers State election materials were snatched at several polling stations.', 'In the northeast, aid workers reported busloads of displaced people had arrived at countryside encampments, saying they had been rounded up by government officials who paid them the equivalent of $6 to return home and vote for specific candidates.', 'Many polling stations across the country were delayed because card readers failed.', 'In Lagos, high-tech card readers plagued one polling station. One failed to recognize both the card and the thumbprint of Ebele Helen Odigie, who looked despondent as she was turned away. Workers tried 22 times without success to get a reader to recognize the voting card of Ayokunle Fashola, but she was allowed to vote anyway.', 'At the Living Water polling unit in Kubwa, just outside Abuja, voting proceeded but a security officer seized phones of anyone who snapped a photo while in line. That included Chibuzor Bonaventure who was taking a selfie. At age 27, he is among 51 percent of the country’s 84 million registered voters between the ages of 18 and 35.', 'Just down the road at a school compound in Kubwa, voting began on time, card readers worked and people calmly queued in orderly lines, casting ballots inside cardboard voting booths.', 'That wasn’t the case on Gana Street in Abuja, a neighborhood of walled villas, international banks and embassies where grumbling voters swirled about, confused over when voting would actually start, two hours after the station officially opened.', 'Election officials weren’t much help. They herded more than 400 people together to write their names and voter numbers on slips of paper, then told them to check their names against a list taped to a wall across the street. Shouts erupted.', 'Finally, voters were organized alphabetically into queues. Several line jumpers prompted more shouting. Things seemed to settle down, then women voters decided they didn’t want to queue with men. New lines formed. New shouting broke out.', 'Younger voters made way for Ms. Michael, a 71-year-old food seller, who moved to the front of the line.', 'A hush fell over the crowd. Ms. Michael ducked under a string holding back voters from the registration table.', 'Eventually, Ms. Michael was allowed to cast her vote, for Mr. Buhari. By the end of voting more than 500 people had cast ballots at the Gana Street station, which had nearly emptied out even before it officially closed.', 'A dozen men remained, clustered under the shade of a wide, yellow flowering tree and hovering over a single smartphone. Each said he hadn’t asked the others whom they supported. The subject was too heated. Instead, they were checking friends’ Facebook accounts to see how voting was going elsewhere.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Senegal’s President Tightens Grip on Power Ahead of Elections
['Posters supporting President Macky Sall of Senegal, in the capital, Dakar. Critics say he is using a string of infrastructure projects to gloss over a power grab.', 'But those achievements gloss over criticisms that the president has consolidated power and used what some say are undemocratic tactics to sideline opponents. His toughest competitor, a former mayor of Dakar, is in jail, sent there after prosecutions ordered up by the government.', 'The president failed to fulfill his biggest campaign promise in 2012: to reduce his own presidential term from seven to five years. His executive actions make it all but certain that he will win the weekend vote.', 'He is among the numerous presidents elected in the past decade in peaceful and democratic votes in the region, building hope that a time of bloody coups and strongmen was finally gone. But several of these new presidents have tightened their grip on power by engineering an extension of their terms, jailing opponents and intimidating and imprisoning journalists.', 'Khalifa Sall, then Dakar’s mayor (and no relation to the president), was arrested on charges of corruption in 2017 to the howls of opposition figures and human rights advocates. While in custody, he was elected to the National Assembly, an act that should have immunized him from prosecution. But in January, he was barred from running for president after a court found him guilty of embezzling $3.2 million in public funds. He was sentenced to five years in prison.', 'Another potential contender, Karim Wade, son of former president Abdoulaye Wade, was also barred from running for president after a court found him guilty of corruption. The younger Mr. Wade, who was a minister in his father’s cabinet, was sentenced to six years in prison in 2015, just two days after the Senegalese Democratic Party appointed him as its candidate. He served half of his prison term before going into exile in Qatar.', 'Mame Adama Gueye, former president of the Senegalese bar association, said that while a trial was necessary for any government official accused of corruption, the timing of the prosecutions reeked of political motivations. The case of Khalifa Sall was particularly “shady,” he said.', 'Members of the opposition demonstrated in Dakar last year, holding pictures of the former minister Karim Wade and the mayor of Dakar, Khalifa Sall. They are demanding transparency in the coming elections.', 'In his resignation letter, he criticized Mr. Sall’s administration and said that “a culture of submission” had gradually replaced “the long culture of honor, dignity and independence” of the judiciary.', 'In April 2018, provisions in Senegal’s electoral code were amended to reduce an unwieldy number of candidates on the ballot, a move praised by many advocates of good government. It also sought to limit presidential terms from seven to five years. Mr. Sall had advocated for that change during his campaign, and voters had presumed the rules would apply to his own term.', 'But on Jan. 14, after dozens had submitted their candidacy for the coming presidential election, only five were found to be eligible to run under the new law. When the Constitutional Council of Senegal published the final list, the president’s name was on it.', 'Although by that point it did not come as much of a surprise, many of his supporters expressed a sense of betrayal.', 'In a recent speech to hundreds of supporters at a rally in Thiès, a city in western Senegal near the capital, Mr. Sall said that with the discovery of oil and gas in the country, one of his priorities in his second term would be to establish centers nationwide where young people could train for jobs in those fields, and in tourism and fishing. He pledged also to rehabilitate Senegal’s lagging rail system.', 'One candidate, El Hadji Issa Sall, an information technology professor and founder of a private university in Dakar, ran on a platform to reduce inequality and improve education. In Senegal, wide swaths of rural areas have never had a school, and the main university’s lecture halls are so full that students are sometimes barred from entry.', 'Mr. Issa Sall, who is no relation to the president, recently suspended his campaign after a pro-government campaigner was stabbed to death in a string of pre-election clashes between his supporters and those of the president. The candidate’s security guards were arrested, stripped and disarmed.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Facing Protests, Sudan’s Leader Declares Yearlong State of Emergency
['Sudan’s leader, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, imposed a yearlong state of emergency on Friday.', 'CAIRO — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan imposed a yearlong state of emergency and dissolved the federal and state governments on Friday, in an attempt to end months of nationwide street protests that have shaken his authority after three decades of rule.', 'In a televised address broadcast live from the presidential palace in Khartoum, Mr. al-Bashir declared the state of emergency, disbanded the federal government, and replaced the state governors with military generals.', 'Mr. al-Bashir also said he was pausing, if not ending, his effort to amend Sudan’s constitution so he could run for a third term of office when the current one ends in 2020.', 'Reuters, citing a presidential statement, reported Friday night that Mr. al-Bashir had appointed a caretaker administration, leaving the current defense, foreign and justice ministers in place.', 'The demonstrations first began on Dec. 19 in the town of Atbara, and were focused on the soaring bread prices. They quickly grew into a movement calling for the ouster of the president, with near daily protests spreading to cities across the country.', 'The protesters come from across Sudanese society, including sections of a shrinking upper middle class that has withered with the country’s precipitous economic slide. Soaring fuel prices have caused factories to close, and youth employment stands at about 27 percent, according to World Bank estimates.', 'Protest leaders say that more than 1,000 people have been arrested in a crackdown led by the feared National Intelligence and Security Service. Internet access has been restricted in an effort to block social media posts used by the mostly young protesters to organize demonstrations.', 'In recent years, Mr. al-Bashir has fired or marginalized potential rivals for power, and little in his long rule suggests a new willingness for rapprochement.', 'Before the televised address, Sudan’s intelligence chief, Salah Abdallah Gosh, told reporters that Mr. al-Bashir would announce his resignation as head of the ruling National Congress Party.', 'But Mr. al-Bashir said nothing in the speech about his party, and activists fear the state of emergency could presage even harsher measures against their movement.', 'In the immediate aftermath of his speech, however, demonstrators appeared undeterred. Videos posted on social media suggested that protests against his rule continued in Khartoum.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: Why Do Zebras Have Stripes? Scientists Camouflaged Horses to Find Out
['If you spend time around horses or flies, you might want to invest in some zebra print.', 'Those stripes might be some of nature’s most effective insect repellent.', 'What’s black, white and striped all over — except for its head?', 'Horses wearing zebra coats on a farm in Britain.', 'The animals weren’t attending a masquerade. They were dressed for studies investigating a mystery that has puzzled scientists for more than a century.', 'Wallace were theorizing about evolution, scientists have debated the function of this sassy animal print. It’s been called camouflage to confuse big predators, an identity signal to other zebras and a kind of wearable air conditioner. Now most scientists agree that the function of a zebra’s stripes is to ward off biting flies that can carry deadly diseases.', 'But what exactly is it about a zebra’s wardrobe that flies don’t like?', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'A horse dressed as a zebra to investigate fly behavior in England.', 'The flies pestered all of the horses and the zebras in the paddocks equally. But once they got close, the zebra stripes seemed to dazzle the flies so much that they couldn’t manage a controlled landing. Flies zoomed in too fast and either veered off just in time — or simply bumped into the zebra and bounced off. The flies didn’t seem to like the zebra coats on horses, either, but their bare heads were fair game.', 'The only thing they can say for certain is that the high contrast between black and white most likely tricks the fly’s low-resolution vision, which relies on sensing movement.', 'In an optical illusion called the barber pole, diagonal stripes appear to move up or down, depending on which way the pole is rotating. Something similar could be happening as flies approach zebra stripes. From afar, the fly may interpret the object as gray, but as it moves closer, the zebra’s diagonal stripes may appear to be moving in false directions. As a result, a fly may think it’s headed toward open space instead of landing. Or perhaps the sudden appearance of stripes may overload the fly’s vision and startle it into a buzzing stupor.', 'The researchers are now conducting tests with coats of different patterns, contrasts and thickness, to see just what it is about the stripes that stops the flies. “By playing around with those variables, we’ll be able to get inside the head of the fly, or the eye of the fly, to work out what’s sort of confusing to it,” said Dr. Caro.', 'In the meantime, people planning on being around horses or horse flies may want to consider wearing zebra print rather than a solid to avoid being bitten. You should probably make your horse a twinsie, too.', 'What’s Black and White and Travels 310 Miles?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Oil Companies May Be Complicit in Atrocities in South Sudan, U.N. Panel Says
['Internally displaced persons in South Sudan, near the border with Uganda. Fighting between government forces and rebels has driven thousands to flee their homes.', 'GENEVA — Despite a peace agreement, mass atrocities continue in South Sudan, driven partly by fights over control of oil, and foreign oil companies may be complicit in war crimes, a United Nations panel said on Wednesday.', 'The United Nations Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan said it was “outraged by reports of thousands of civilians forcibly displaced following a scorched earth policy in which the parties to the conflict are attacking villages, torching homes, killing civilians and also raping women and girls,” Andrew Clapham, a member of the three-person panel, told reporters in Geneva.', 'Fighting between government forces and a rebel group, the National Salvation Front, in the south of the country had driven thousands of villagers to seek safety in nearby towns and thousands more to flee across the border into the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mr. Clapham said.', 'The commission is compiling dossiers on individuals linked to atrocities and has already submitted names to the United Nations human rights office, but the panel expressed concern at the lack of progress in setting up courts to prosecute perpetrators.', 'South Sudan’s minister of petroleum, Ezekiel Lol Gatkuoth, left, at an oil well in the north of the country in August.', 'The report emphasized the role of South Sudan’s oil industry as “a major driver for the continuing violence, the ensuing human suffering, and the violations of international humanitarian law witnessed there,” warning foreign companies that they could be implicated in abuses.', 'Control of the country’s oil resources was “a top prize” in the struggle for political and economic power, the panel wrote, noting that a government offensive carried out using “extremely violent methods” in the first half of 2018 was aimed largely at securing control of areas close to oil fields and either pacifying or driving out the civilian population.', 'South Sudan’s intelligence services have increasingly taken control of the state-owned Nile Petroleum Corporation, known as Nilepet, siphoning off money to finance the conflict and to enrich the political and ethnic elites, the commission said.', 'Western companies had pulled out of oil production activities in the area before South Sudan gained independence in 2011, partly because of human rights violations, opening the way for companies from Asia. Oil production is now dominated by three joint ventures between Nilepet and Chinese National Petroleum Company, Petronas of Malaysia and the Indian Oil and Natural Gas Corporation.', 'That listing underscored the companies’ exposure to potential criminal liability for causing or contributing to the continuing armed conflict and the violations against civilians in their areas of operation, the panel said. The international community and Human Rights Council “should pay more attention” to the issue, Mr. Clapham said.', 'As a case in point, the panel noted that Sweden began the prosecution of the chairman and chief executive officer of a Swedish oil company, Lundin, in October 2018 for crimes against civilians. Those arose from military operations in the late 1990s and early 2000s that were intended to clear the area for oil production and that involved widespread abuses.', 'A Peace Deal for South Sudan Is Signed. Will It Last?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Egypt Executes 9 Convicted of Assassinating Top Prosecutor
['Hisham Barakat, Egypt’s top prosecutor, was killed in 2015 when a bomb struck his convoy in Cairo.', 'The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief the news media, said the families of the men had been told to pick up their bodies from a Cairo morgue.', 'A total of 15 people have been executed in Egypt since the start of the year. Three were hanged this month for their involvement in the 2014 killing of a judge’s son in the Nile Delta town of Mansura, north of Cairo. Another three were put to death for killing a police officer in Cairo in September 2013. Rights groups denounced the executions, saying the men were sentenced to death after being subjected to torture and beatings to extract confessions.', 'Egypt’s highest appeals court upheld the death sentences in November. It commuted six other death sentences to life in prison. Death sentences were also handed down in 2017 to 13 defendants tried in absentia. They will be eligible for a new trial if they surrender or are captured. Turkey deported one of the 13 last month.', 'Since then, the authorities have waged an extensive crackdown on Islamists, arresting and detaining thousands and leveling harsh sentences against them.', 'There were attempts against other ministers until the insurgency was crushed in the late 1990s.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Tanzania Court Convicts ‘Ivory Queen’ for Trafficking Elephant Tusks
['Yang Feng Glan, left, was accused of smuggling $5.6 million worth of ivory to Asia from Tanzania between 2000 and 2004.', 'DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania — A Tanzanian court on Tuesday sentenced a Chinese businesswoman known as the “Ivory Queen” to 15 years in prison for smuggling the tusks of more than 350 elephants to Asia — a major victory in the effort to stamp out poaching in Africa.', 'The businesswoman, Yang Feng Glan, was charged in October 2015 and accused of smuggling $5.6 million worth of ivory, said to be 860 pieces between 2000 and 2004. She denied the charges.', 'Police sources said Ms. Yang, 69, had lived in Tanzania since the 1970s and was secretary general of the China-Africa Business Council of Tanzania. She also owns a popular Chinese restaurant in Dar es Salaam, the Tanzanian capital, and speaks Swahili.', 'Ms. Yang and two Tanzanian men — Salivius Matembo and Manase Philemon — were convicted of leading an organized criminal gang and sentenced to 15 years in prison.', 'A Kisutu Court magistrate who issued the sentences, Huruma Shaidi, also ordered the three to either pay twice the market value of the elephant tusks or face an additional two years in prison.', 'In court documents, prosecutors said Ms. Yang sought to “organize, manage and finance a criminal racket by collecting, transporting or exporting and selling government trophies” weighing just over two tons.', 'Demand for ivory from Asian countries such as China and Vietnam has led to a surge in poaching across Africa. According to a 2015 census, Tanzania’s elephant population shrank to little more than 43,000 in 2014 from 110,000 in 2009. Conservation groups have blamed “industrial-scale” poaching.', 'Ms. Yang is not the first Chinese person to be convicted of ivory smuggling in Tanzania in recent years. In March 2016, two Chinese men were sentenced to 35 years each in prison; in December 2015, another court sentenced four Chinese men to 20 years each for smuggling rhino horns.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


More Clues, and Questions, in 1961 Crash That Killed Dag Hammarskjold
['Officials searching through debris after the plane carrying Dag Hammarskjold crashed in Northern Rhodesia.', 'A few provocative tidbits have emerged about the mysterious 1961 death of United Nations Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, just months before the world body may forever close the book on the unsolved case.', 'But it has provided more fuel for questions about what powerful nations may still be withholding in their intelligence archives about the crash, a defining event nearly six decades ago in emerging post-colonial Africa.', 'Mr. Hammarskjold, a pipe-smoking Swedish diplomat whose name now adorns buildings in and around the United Nations headquarters in New York, was on a mission to settle a conflict over Katanga, a rebellious part of Congo, when his aircraft, a chartered DC-6, crashed just after midnight on Sept. 18, 1961.', 'The aircraft, named the Albertina, was just a few minutes from its destination: an airfield in Ndola, in what was then the British protectorate of Northern Rhodesia and is now Zambia.', 'The inquiries have turned Mr. Hammarskjold’s death into the biggest mystery in the history of the United Nations.', 'Now, as a prominent jurist retained by Mr. Hammarskjold’s most recent successor, António Guterres, is preparing what may be the final report on the crash, a documentary film has caused a stir by presenting what it has described as revelations.', 'While the AIDS theory has been met with deep skepticism by a range of experts, its assertions about a South African mercenary connection to Mr. Hammarskjold’s death have not been dismissed so easily.', 'Dag Hammarskjold in 1959.', 'A few weeks before the premiere of “Cold Case Hammarskjold,” Alexander Jones, a former member of the mercenary group and an important figure in the film, was interviewed for 90 minutes in Sweden by a representative of the jurist who is preparing the United Nations report, according to Andreas Rocksen, a producer of the film.', 'Mr. Jones described a 1989 recruitment session for the group, the South African Institute for Maritime Research, in which photographs of the Hammarskjold crash site had been displayed and the group’s leader “referred to it as one of the most successful operations — taking down a dignitary,” Mr. Rocksen said.', 'Asked for comment, the jurist, Mohamed Chande Othman, the former chief justice of Tanzania, said he had received “information from a multiplicity of sources,” including “the makers of a recent film on this subject matter,” according to an emailed statement from his spokesman.', 'The judge also said he was still evaluating the information “in terms of whether it may be new information of relevance” and that he intended to submit his report to Mr. Guterres by June.', 'The film’s researchers also claim to have corroborated a theory that a now-deceased Belgian mercenary pilot, Jan van Risseghem, flying a French-built Fouga Magister belonging to the forces of Moïse Tshombe, the Katangese rebel leader, attacked and destroyed Mr. Hammarskjold’s plane.', 'The researchers interviewed a friend of Mr. Risseghem’s, Pierre Coppens, who said Mr. Risseghem had recounted the attack to him years later in Belgium.', 'That account, however, has been called into question by a German historian, Torben Gülstorff, who has traced documents showing that several Dornier twin-engine planes were sold to the Katangese rebel authorities.', 'Unlike the Fouga, the Dornier Do 28A had short takeoff and landing capabilities and could have used a short airstrip in the Congolese town of Kipushi to reach Ndola, while a Fouga, based much further away in the Congolese town of Kolwezi, would have been at the limits of its range.', 'But that assertion, too, seems undermined by documents published in a Belgian newspaper, De Morgen, last month, showing that Mr. van Risseghem apparently drew an advance on his salary as a mercenary for the Katangese authorities on Sept. 16, 1961.', 'Some of those colonial officials present in Ndola at the time, representing Britain, insist that there was no evidence of an aerial attack.', 'In the absence of any definitive explanation, conflicting theories have proliferated, along with accusations that Western powers and the United Nations itself have obstructed successive inquiries.', 'Do Spy Agencies Hold Answer to Dag Hammarskjold’s Death? U.N. Wants to Know.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


11th-Hour Delay of Nigeria’s Presidential Election Disappoints Millions
['Nigerians checking their names on voting lists in Jimeta on Saturday. The country’s electoral watchdog postponed presidential and parliamentary elections for one week, hours before polls were to open.', 'ABUJA, Nigeria — The weather. Sabotage of buildings storing election materials. A raft of court challenges.', 'Those were some of the reasons Nigeria’s elections commissioner cited for his middle-of-the-night decision — announced at 2:30 a.m. on Saturday — to delay the nation’s presidential vote hours before polls were to open.', 'The news came as a huge disappointment to millions of Nigerian voters who awoke Saturday morning expecting to vote for one of the more than 70 candidates. Among the contenders is President Muhammadu Buhari, 76, who is vying for a third term. He had traveled to his home village to cast a ballot, only to fly back to the capital Saturday instead.', 'Supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari at a rally in Abuja on Wednesday. He faced a tight race in the presidential election, which was scheduled for Saturday but was abruptly delayed by a week.', 'Many others had also traveled long distances to their home districts to be in place to vote — Nigeria has no absentee voting system. And the frustration was palpable.', 'Mr. Buhari and his leading challenger, Atiku Abubakar, 72, urged their supporters to be patient even as they condemned the one-week delay.', 'Critics also say the president has used his anticorruption campaign to target political enemies while sparing his allies.', 'Polling station workers with electoral materials to be sent back to the Nigerian electoral commission office in Umuahia. The decision to delay the vote upended the plans of millions of people and international electoral observers.', 'The political parties of the two leading candidates each accused the other of gaining an advantage from the delay.', 'A considerably lower turnout is almost certainly guaranteed. It is unlikely many voters who live far from their polling stations will be able to afford the time or money to make the trip again. But it is unclear which candidate that would benefit.', 'Mr. Abubakar accused the president of orchestrating the delay to suppress voter turnout.', 'Supporters of Atiku Abubakar, the leading opposition candidate for the presidency, at a rally in the city of Jimeta on Thursday.', 'The decision upended the plans of millions of people, including huge teams of international observers from the European Union, the African Union and pro-democracy organizations in the United States and elsewhere. Observers had fanned out across the country and set up command centers in hotel conference rooms to monitor the election.', 'On Saturday they were busy rebooking flights and paying for extra nights in hotels. Though many said they were committed to monitor voting on the new date, it was unclear whether their ranks would remain as strong.', 'There were concerns that rumors and bogus news reports could spread about the reasons for the delay. And it seemed possible that still more logistical problems could develop.', 'Mahmood Yakubu, Nigeria’s elections commissioner, said that among the challenges was the fact that 180,000 high-tech smart card readers would need to be reprogrammed for the new election date.', 'Soldiers on patrol in Aba, a southeastern city, on Friday, which was then thought to be the eve of the election.', 'He cited weather delays that stalled the distribution of voting materials to all of the nearly 120,000 polling stations. A massive dust storm has lingered over parts of the country for days stalling some flights. Up to 640 court challenges by various contenders had also contributed to delays at the commission. And three buildings storing election materials were burned in acts of sabotage, he said.', 'Mr. Yakubu considered postponing the vote by just one day, but said the nation’s many Christians would have objected to an election on a Sunday. Waiting until Monday wouldn’t work either, he said, as retrieving and resetting tens of thousands of card readers from polling sites across the country would be a lengthy process.', 'Rescheduling the election is bound to come at a huge cost, not just for the redeployment of people and equipment, but for the scores of restaurant workers, market employees, taxi drivers and others who all missed a day of work Saturday to vote. The government had ordered all vehicles off the roads for the day, and most businesses had shuttered.', 'Still, many observers were optimistic that a sense of calm would prevail. The past two Nigerian presidential elections were also delayed.', 'But this campaign has been closely fought, and tensions have been high throughout.', 'The opposition has accused Mr. Buhari’s government of plotting to rig the vote. In turn, Abba Kyari, the president’s chief of staff, made a rare public comment in an article for an Nigerian newspaper, accusing the United States and the European Union of working with Mr. Abubakar’s party.', 'Dionne Searcey reported from Abuja and Emmanuel Akinwotu from Lagos, Nigeria.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Nigeria Postpones Election Just Hours Before Polls Open
['Election material awaiting distribution in Yola, Nigeria, on Friday.', 'Nigeria’s electoral commission delayed the presidential election until Feb. 23, making the announcement a mere five hours before polls were set to open Saturday. It cited unspecified “challenges” amid reports that voting materials had not been delivered to all parts of the country.', 'Nigeria also postponed the previous presidential election in 2015 because of deadly insecurity in the northeast, which remains under threat from Islamic extremists.', 'More than 84 million voters in this country of some 190 million had been expected to head to the polls in what is seen as a close and heated race between 76-year-old President Muhammadu Buhari and top challenger Atiku Abubakar, a billionaire former vice president.', 'Both have pledged to work for a peaceful election even as their supporters, including high-level officials, have caused alarm with vivid warnings against foreign interference and allegations of rigging.', 'When Mr. Buhari came to power in 2015 he made history with the first defeat of an incumbent president in an election hailed as one of the most transparent and untroubled ever in Nigeria, which has seen deadly post-vote violence in the past.', 'Now Mr. Buhari could become the second incumbent to be unseated. His term has been marked by a crash in global oil prices that spun Nigeria’s heavily crude-dependent economy into a rare recession, from which it emerged only in 2017. Unemployment shot up. The country passed India as the nation with the most people living in extreme poverty. More than 13 million children are said to be out of school.', 'Mr. Abubakar has campaigned on the theme of “Let’s Make Nigeria Work Again,” while vowing to apply his business acumen to privatize Nigeria’s all-important state oil company and lift 50 million people out of poverty by 2025.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Brazil Arrests 8 at Mining Giant Vale Over Deadly Dam Collapse
['A firefighter at the Vale plant near Brumadinho, Brazil, this past week. The rupture of the dam last month unleashed a tidal wave of mining waste and sludge that killed at least 166 people.', 'The dam, filled with mining waste and sludge, burst three weeks ago, sending a tidal wave of mud crashing down on the company cafeteria at a mining complex in Brumadinho in southeastern Brazil. The torrent continued downhill, slamming into homes and contaminating rivers. At least 166 people were killed and 147 remain missing.', 'He said a “drastic variation” that was recorded in monitoring instruments just days before the collapse, along with anomalies registered since mid-2018, should have prompted an immediate evacuation.', 'The defendants will be held for up to 30 days as the criminal investigation continues and prosecutors decide what charges to formally file, he said.', 'The police also carried out 14 search and seizure warrants at Vale offices and at the offices of four employees of the Brazilian subsidiary of TÜV Süd, a German industrial testing company, which inspected the Brumadinho dam twice last year, most recently in September.', 'TÜV Süd said it would not comment on the investigation.', 'In emails included in the arrest warrant, one TÜV Süd engineer said that inspections indicated that the dam was at risk of liquefaction — when the solid tailings abruptly become a murky liquid.', 'In Brazil, independent auditors verify the safety of dams through regular inspections and analysis of written records.', 'In the weeks since the latest tragedy, a series of documents have emerged that show Vale shrugged off warning signs at the dam, which was built using an inherently risky “upstream” method, and successfully lobbied to fast-track an expansion plan at the mining complex.', 'When the dam broke, no alarms or sirens sounded to warn workers and communities downstream. Vale said the rupture had happened too quickly to trigger the alarm system.', 'Vale has since announced it is shutting down its 10 remaining upstream dams and suspending production at the mining compounds where they stand until the dams have been decommissioned.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Sexual Violence on the Rise in South Sudan, U.N. Says
['A woman who said she and a friend were raped by four gunmen in November recounted the attack at a hospital in Nhialdiu, South Sudan, in December.', 'GENEVA — Some women were tied to trees, raped for hours and then beaten. Others who resisted were pummeled with rifle butts, sticks and cable wire. The assailants were armed men, mostly from forces aligned with South Sudan’s government.', 'United Nations investigators said they had documented the rape of 134 women and girls in northern areas of South Sudan in the last three months of 2018. Fifty of the victims were children, one of them just 8 years old. Another 41 women and girls suffered other forms of sexual and physical abuse.', 'Many rape victims had dispersed to remote areas that could not be reached by road, and the actual number of attacks was much higher, the investigators said, noting that the violence had continued this year, albeit on a smaller scale.', 'The United Nations human rights chief, Michelle Bachelet, urged South Sudan’s leaders in a statement on Friday to investigate the latest evidence of widespread rape, put perpetrators on trial and tackle the pervasive impunity that the report identified as an important factor in the country’s endemic sexual violence.', 'The United Nations said most of the attacks were conducted by youth militias and by elements of forces aligned with Mr. Kiir. A smaller number of attacks were linked to opposition fighters supporting Mr. Machar.', 'Almost 90 percent of the victims were raped by more than one attacker and often for hours at a time, the United Nations reported, describing one episode in which soldiers gang raped a group of five women, four of whom were pregnant at the time.', 'A senior military officer implicated by the United Nations in a campaign of rape and killings carried out by government forces last year was later promoted and was identified by the organization as commanding units involved in the attacks described in Friday’s report. He was not named in the report.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Can France Ever Leave Africa? Airstrikes in Chad Raise an Old Question
['President Emmanuel Macron of France, left, and President Idriss Déby of Chad in N’Djamena, the Chad capital, in December. France came to Mr. Déby’s aid this month.', 'PARIS — French airstrikes this month in support of Chad’s longtime autocratic ruler, Idriss Déby, have raised a familiar question: Has France really left behind decades of deep involvement in African politics?', 'French officials have brushed aside these qualms, insisting that it was Mr. Déby himself who invited the French. The strikes took place between Feb. 3 and 6, destroying 20 rebel pickup trucks and stopping a rebel advance, the French military said in a statement.', 'French analysts have been sharply critical of the intervention in Chad.', 'President Emmanuel Macron is no exception. His government was outraged recently when Italy’s populist leaders mocked France for what they called the perpetuation of its colonial relationship with Africa.', 'Both the French promise and French outrage belie a far murkier reality. France continues to keep a heavy hand in Africa, militarily and economically. Analysts said the recent Chad incursion, hardly the first time the French military has swooped in to rescue Mr. Déby, was a classic example.', 'The rebel column, roughly 50 pickup trucks belonging to the Union of Resistance Forces, a coalition of armed groups, had been headed toward Chad’s capital, Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian insisted before a parliamentary committee on Wednesday. The column, departing from lawless southern Libya, was intent on “destabilizing the country,” the French military said in a statement.', 'The column did not heed warnings and strikes from Chadian forces on Feb. 1 and 2, or those of the French Air Force on Feb. 3, the military’s statement added. And “there was a written request by the chief of state” to act, Mr. Le Drian told the committee.', 'Only a handful of voices in Parliament have been raised against the government’s argument, testament to the tacit acceptance of the France’s continued role in its former colonies.', 'Freedom House, a pro-democracy research group, ranks Chad as “Not Free” and gives the country its lowest score for political rights. Chad ranks third from the bottom in the United Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures life expectancy, education and economic well-being.', 'Inside Chad, where the fragile opposition speaks cautiously, there was frustration over French support for Mr. Déby.', 'Mr. Marchal, the analyst, was skeptical of the argument that France had intervened only because Mr. Déby asked. A column of 50 pickups far from the capital could not have represented a mortal threat to a government with a capable army, he said.', 'The real reasons lie elsewhere, he said. “Déby is convinced that if he doesn’t have a clear signal that Paris is behind him, he could be in danger,” Mr. Marchal said.', 'As for the end of Francafrique, he and others said, the obituary is, as always, premature.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


‘It’s Not Getting Better’: Nigeria Braces for Election Day as Frustrations Boil
['Supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria carrying a poster at the rally in Abuja, the capital.', 'GWAGWALADA, Nigeria — The seven sewing machines were quiet at Diamonds Empire on a recent morning. The blades of a standing fan were still. Adama Daniel sat behind the front desk of the dark, stuffy tailor shop and moped.', 'The blackout in the neighborhood not far from the capital had started nearly 28 hours earlier. Customers were waiting on suits, dresses and a tiger-print miniskirt. Mr. Daniel was contemplating firing up his generator, but that would cut into his profit margins.', 'In 2015 when he cast a ballot for president, Mr. Daniel, who is 29, thought he would be in a better place by now. He had bounded into a polling station to throw his support behind Muhammadu Buhari, who seemed bursting with ideas to grow the country’s lackluster economy. Mr. Daniel was elated when his candidate won. Finally, he thought, the country was on the right path.', 'Although Mr. Buhari did make notable moves toward improving the economy during his term, the impact has not registered widely. His crowning achievement: pulling the oil-dependent nation out of a grueling recession.', 'The Kado Market in Abuja. Across Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, people are growing frustrated about jobs, wages, blackouts and other daily obstacles.', 'But outside the wealthy elite, all that means little to countless Nigerians. Mr. Daniel, for one, spends $200 a month to buy diesel fuel for his generator to keep his business going. He’s anxious to finish his medical degree but administrators at his school, and all public universities, keep striking for months at a time to agitate for better resources. His brother has an engineering degree but can’t find a job that pays more than the tailors earn at Mr. Daniel’s shop.', 'Mr. Abubakar, who has put economic issues at the center of his campaign, “knows what Nigerians need,” said Mr. Daniel.', 'In the northeast of the country on Tuesday, a convoy heading to an election event and carrying Kashim Shettima, a state governor, was attacked by Boko Haram, an extremist Islamist group which operates in the region. At least three people were killed, officials said. Many of the governor’s entourage fled into the bush after militants dressed as soldiers and riding in stolen military vehicles attacked, local news media reported.', 'The incident drew attention to another of Mr. Buhari’s 2015 pledges: to destroy Boko Haram. Far from being crushed, Boko Haram has recently been gaining strength.', 'The burial prayer of a victim of a suspected Boko Haram attack in Maiduguri, Nigeria. The extremist group has been gaining strength, despite a government campaign to crush it.', 'Mr. Buhari and Mr. Abubakar, who each have pledged to accept the election results peacefully, wrapped up final appearances this week at rallies across the country, where thousands turned out wearing dresses, rings, hats and scarves plastered with their candidates’ photos.', 'But across Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, life grinds on far from the rallies, the violence and the political maneuvering.', 'In Abuja, the capital, people cluster along the exhaust-choked highway all day, selling bags of bread from a nearby bakery at a markup. Metal drainage grates are missing from a major road, swiped by thieves hoping to sell them for scrap. Men playing after-work table tennis at a park complain about the price of rice and building materials.', 'The grim situation has forced everyone to think only of themselves, some civil leaders fear.', 'Mr. Lawal supports neither of the two leading contenders. Mr. Abubakar, a former vice president, and Mr. Buhari, a former general who was in power under military rule in the 1980s, are establishment candidates who are both in their 70s. Fifty-one percent of the 84 million registered voters are between the ages of 18 and 35, according to government officials.', 'As an incumbent, Mr. Buhari carries a huge advantage. He has introduced poverty programs, including free school meals. Access to education in general has increased. He pledged recently to raise the minimum wage.', 'A supporter of Mr. Buhari climbed on a roof to remove political posters at the end of a rally.', 'Yet many graduates say they can’t find jobs. Unemployment is rampant. Salaries are stretched for people who do have jobs. Some civil servants don’t receive regular paychecks. The price of fuel has increased. People complain rent and public transit prices are too high.', 'Inside the market, frustration was rampant. Look around, Ruby Shaibu King said, pointing to the people braiding hair, painting toenails and selling spiked heels and cheap plastic bowls.', 'Jude Ben has a degree in business administration. He styles hair, along with dozens of others at the market. He’s so frustrated that he’s not voting.', 'Tony Iyare contributed reporting from Abuja, Nigeria.', 'Nigeria Says Soldiers Who Killed Marchers Were Provoked. Video Shows Otherwise.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trilobites: An Icy Superhighway Once Carried Glaciers From Namibia to Brazil
['Researchers matched up a jigsaw puzzle of ice that once flowed between two landmasses now separated by an ocean.', 'Drumlins, sedimentary rock formations made by fast-moving ice flows in Namibia.', 'The key piece of evidence came in the form of lacerated Namibian hills formed long ago by the migration of glaciers and icy rivers. This study features descriptions of some of the oldest of these ice-formed sculptures, and it is the first time they have been described in southern Africa.', 'Like the Science Times page on Facebook.', 'Science Times newsletter.', 'During field research in Namibia’s northern deserts, they were out looking at volcanic rocks. On the last day, some especially curved hills caught Dr. Andrews’ eye.', 'To him, they looked like drumlins, sedimentary castles that dot parts of his native Northern Ireland. They typically are built when the sediment dragged along by glaciers falls off and accumulates in a stretched-out pile.', 'Dr. Andrews’s field guides in Namibia had not considered the hills to be of glacial origin. Back at home, he proposed his “completely crazy” idea to a pair of students in his lab.', 'Striations, or carvings in bedrock made by moving ice, in a megawhaleback in Namibia.', 'Namibia’s drumlins, whalebacks and megawhalebacks were also carved with gigantic scratch marks. Such scars could have formed only if ice was streaming past them at several hundred feet per year, essentially making the erosive blocks the Formula 1 race cars of the glacial world. In contrast, the surrounding glaciers would have appeared almost stationary.', 'Ancient Namibia resembled the upstream portion of an enormous ice flow.', 'Research on these features doesn’t just provide a window into Earth’s distant past.', 'Both stories, past and present, are about loss. “These superhighways of ice are how ice caps actually die,” said Dr. Andrews.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Africa’s Black Panthers Emerge From the Shadows
['A young female black leopard was spotted in the Laikipia Wilderness Camp in Kenya. She appeared five times in footage from February to April 2018.', 'A team from the Institute for Conservation Research of the San Diego Zoo Global and the Loisaba Conservancy in Kenya confirmed the existence of black leopards — as the animals are also known — in Laikipia County, an area north of Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.', 'The leopard, scientific name Panthera pardus, is more commonly found with a black coat in tropical and humid Southeast Asia. But, apparently, melanism — the cause of the dark coloring — can also be displayed in semiarid climates, like that of Laikipia, according to the paper.', 'There have been a few reported observations of this subspecies in Africa, but, until now, only one had been confirmed, in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, in 1909.', 'From February to April 2018, five of the cameras recorded footage of a young female black leopard. She appeared alone in four nighttime videos — drinking water from artificial water sources or carrying remains of her prey — but in the only daytime video, she was following an adult female leopard with normal markings.', 'Word of the camera observations brought forth another high-quality image of a black leopard from the Ol Ari Nyiro Conservancy, also in Laikipia, which was taken in May 2007.', 'The dark coloration of the melanistic leopards’ coat is attributed to a recessive gene that causes the loss of the normal function. Despite being called black, they are usually very dark brown and have the same pattern of spots as other leopards, according to the Out of Africa Park in Arizona, which hosts two black leopards, named Enoch and Silhouette.', 'But there are also theories suggesting that melanism could have an environmental factor.', 'Until recently, leopards — reclusive, adaptable, and territorial — were considered to exist in relative abundance.', 'But a study published in May 2016 suggested that leopards had lost 75 percent of their range since 1750. They were then classified as “vulnerable” on the Red List of threatened species of the International Union for Conservation of Nature.', 'An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to black panthers. They are not a distinct species, but a melanistic color variant of the African leopard subspecies.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Nigeria’s Election Brings Dual Crises Back to the Polls: Corruption and Boko Haram
['Supporters of President Mohammadu Buhari of Nigera at a rally in Kano last month. Mr. Buhari first took power after a military coup in 1983, and won election in 2015.', 'ABUJA, Nigeria — Muhammadu Buhari won the presidency in a historic election in Nigeria four years ago by promising to crush two scourges that had plagued the nation for years: endemic corruption and a war with Islamist extremists.', 'Now, as Mr. Buhari is in the final throes of a bruising re-election campaign, he stands accused of falling short on all fronts.', 'Critics say Mr. Buhari has used his antigraft mantra to crush adversaries. Boko Haram is gaining ground, launching sophisticated attacks on weary, underequipped soldiers. And many of the captive students are still missing.', 'Out of 60 contenders, Mr. Buhari’s leading opponent is Atiku Abubakar, a candidate with little military experience and a past so checkered with corruption allegations that the United States refused for years to grant him a visa.', 'As voters prepare to go to the polls this weekend for what appears to be a tight election in Africa’s most populous country, the electorate has increasingly lost hope that the government will ever be free of graft. Instead, voters are fixated on mounting violence in pockets of the nation and everyday issues like having reliable electricity.', 'Atiku Abubakar, the main Nigerian opposition candidate, at a campaign rally in the state of Kaduna.', 'Both leading candidates are slinging accusations at one another while traveling the country for last-minute rallies. The European Union is sending observers.', 'Mr. Buhari, 76, a former military strongman, first took power in Nigeria in 1983 after a military coup. He launched a war on corruption by jailing political actors without trial and committing widespread human rights abuses.', 'Corrupt officials braced for what was known then as “the Buhari effect,” a wide-scale crackdown on graft. A former defense minister was so worried he fled the country.', 'Mr. Buhari quickly empowered a team to investigate illicit money flows and make high-profile busts of former government officials, seizing properties and uncovering millions of dollars in cash hidden inside apartment walls.', 'A protest in Abuja over Mr. Buhari’s suspension of the nation’s chief justice, who was accused of holding unexplained millions in undeclared bank accounts, a violation of an ethics code.', 'But Mr. Buhari has backed off some prosecutions in exchange for political support and overlooked some wrongdoing. It was only after pressure mounted on his policy during the campaign season that officials brought charges against one of his top appointees for stealing money intended for Boko Haram victims, a case uncovered in 2017.', 'Among Mr. Buhari’s critics, Senator Shehu Sani, a member of Mr. Buhari’s party, said that “the presidency uses insecticides” to fight corruption among those outside his circle, but only “deodorant” on his allies.', 'Last week, Mr. Buhari suspended the nation’s chief justice, claiming he was holding millions in undeclared bank accounts, in violation of an ethics code. The removal from office of a judge who would rule on any issues were the election contested was so swift that it prompted statements of concern from the United States, Britain, the European Union and others.', 'Mr. Buhari’s campaign has rejected accusations that any of his moves against corruption, including his suspension of the justice, have political undertones.', 'Mr. Abubakar, 72, a former vice president, has been notably quiet on the issue of fighting graft, even downplaying the need to clean up the government. His opponents say that’s because of corruption allegations against him.', 'A United States Senate subcommittee in 2010 held up Mr. Abubakar as a prime example of overseas corruption for funneling tens of millions of dollars’ worth of Nigerian oil revenues into foreign shell accounts. The dealings of Mr. Abubakar and one of his wives were contained in a report, “Keeping Foreign Corruption Out of the United States,” to show that tougher laws were needed to keep foreign officials from using American banks to bring suspect money into the country.', 'Herders outside the town of Garin Galadima, Nigeria.', 'Boladele Adekoya, an adviser to Mr. Abubakar, called any corruption allegations baseless and pointed out that Mr. Abubakar has never been charged with a graft-related crime.', 'When Mr. Abubakar made a bid for the presidency in 2007, election officials purposefully left his name off the ballot because he was facing a corruption investigation. He challenged the decision, restoring his name but taking third place in the vote. He rejected the election as not credible.', 'Mr. Abubakar’s campaign has sought to shift the national conversation away from corruption and onto the economy. The tactic has targeted voters who seem to have given up that anyone will ever beat back graft.', 'Members of the Nigerian military carrying the coffins of five people who died in a helicopter crash during an ambush by Boko Haram militants.', 'The extremists have carried out more complicated missions against military installations and posted online a gruesome video of an attack on soldiers.', 'In Maiduguri, hundreds of displaced people protested last week, blocking roads and tearing down campaign signs, saying they didn’t have enough to eat.', 'Yomi Akinola, who drives a taxi in Lagos, said that the campaign season usually brings an air of excitement and optimism. But he had little faith in either leading candidate.', 'Emmanuel Akinwotu reported from Lagos, Nigeria. Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting from Washington, D.C.', 'Nigeria Says Soldiers Who Killed Marchers Were Provoked. Video Shows Otherwise.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


BSE Sensex spooked after Israel shoots off a missile, an SandP's analyst his mouth
[]


Rupee continues fall, slips below 100-level against UK pound
[]


In disruptions, demands, sign of Oppn unease with food Bill
[]


Bihar BJP rapped for Narendra Modi resolution
[]


SP and BSP blunt BJP''s Vadra attack
[]


FM P. Chidambaram lays out new steps to aid Indian rupee but market isn't impressed
[]


Cong MP seeks probe into Vadra land deal
[]


BJP decides to target Sonia Gandhi over Vadra-DLF land deal
[]


60 injured in Kishtwar Eid clashes, curfew in town as Army called out
[]


Indian Rupee slide: RBI takes new steps as Raghuram Rajan says 'we will overcome'
[]


LoC killings: A K Antony retracts, loses face
[]


LoC killings: BJP targets Antony for 'clean chit' to Pakistan army
[]


In hard times, RBI gets reforms roadmap author Raghuram Rajan as head
[]


Befitting reply: Sonia, Rahul want 'steps'
[]


Tribunal lays down the law on sand mining
[]


India loses its leading military analyst
[]


Parties promise House peace, session may be extended
[]


Financial Legislation: 'Some agreement' on stalled Bills
[]


KCR fans Telangana flames: Andhra staff will need to leave Hyderabad once we get our state
[]


Arson attacks singe Darjeeling as central forces arrive ahead of GJM bandh
[]


Rajnath Singh speaks: Hamara choice (for PM) clear hai
[]


Autonomy: CBI proposed, Govt disposes
[]


No Telangana Bill in coming House session: Shinde
[]


Cabinet approves easing FDI norms for telecom, defence, retail
[]


Don't need govt nod for probe we monitor: Supreme Court
[]


Anger erupts over Telangana, others knock on Delhi door
[]


Telangana: Now set up commission for other states, says BJP
[]


Two cities, same tragedy: Youth, stunts, motorcycles and death
[]


Jet-Etihad deal gets nod with conditions
[]


19-year-old killed as Delhi Police open fire on group of 'stunt motorcyclists', one injured
[]


Aligarh Muslim University withdraws dress curbs on girl students
[]


Telangana coming soon, govt urged us to stay calm, claim Gorkha leaders
[]


UPA close to Telangana decision, Andhra Pradesh holds its breath
[]


In Gujarat, many bid for Narendra Modi memorabilia
[]


Batla House encounter: 'IM member' Shahzad Ahmad pronounced guilty
[]


Sitaram Yechury, others deny signing petition to Barack Obama on Modi visa, BJP seeks probe
[]


Bihar principal held, Nitish defends govt
[]


As Amartya Sen criticises Narendra Modi, BJP MP wants his Ratna snatched
[]


Jaish chief in Kashmir shot dead in Kupwara encounter
[]


Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Awards: Felicitating the best
[]


Cong disowns leader''s remark on Gujarat link
[]


Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Awards: Indian journalism's finest to be honoured on Tuesday
[]


Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Awards: It is time to celebrate the best in Indian journalism once again
[]


Villagers help police nab Jharkhand 'rapists'
[]


SC lifts Maharashtra dance bar ban, says it is unconstitutional
[]


Bodhgaya blasts: IM 'explosives supplier' held in Bengal
[]


Need to dig deep, so permit us to share coal probe details with govt, CBI tells SC
[]


BJP, RJD join hands for Magadh bandh, Nitish asks are you a team
[]


Bombs similar to Pune, Hyderabad, damaged timers reduced blasts
[]


At Charar-e-Sharief, Omar raises Afzal, says peace not permanent
[]


Six Naxals killed in Gadchiroli encounter
[]


Rajnath Singh says temple not poll, political issue, it's development
[]


After 'Indian Mujahideen' arrests last year, temple was known as target
[]


Narendra Modi warns Nitish Kumar: Betrayers will be taught a lesson
[]


CBI names Pawan Kumar Bansal as witness in Railway bribery case
[]


Jet Airways, Etihad deal: Beleaguered PMO steps in, says no differences in govt
[]


Uttarakhand: Arm fractured, 10-yr-old treks 10 km to hospital
[]


Swept by Hindi and Korean serials, films, Mizoram strikes back
[]


Power, fertiliser costs need not tag along with costlier gas: PC
[]


PM sets Rs 1.15 lakh cr infra projects roll-out target for 2013
[]


Uttarakhand flood: 6,500 survivors await evacuation, bad weather hits rescue operation
[]


EXCLUSIVE: Gujarat riots bad example of governance, says Manohar Parikkar
[]


Rajnath Singh, man in the hot seat, is guest at Express Adda tonight
[]


Slamming Narendra Modi 'coronation', 'hegemony', JD(U) calls it quits
[]


Modi rise threatened EBC vote of some, says BJP
[]


Bigwigs stay, small changes make up Rahul 'revamp'
[]


Bengal CID at CPM leader Gautam Deb's door, Jyoti Basu's son may be next
[]


Lloyd Steel VP Jaspalsingh Dhillon, 2 others killed by Naxals in Gadchiroli mining row
[]


Maoists attack train in Bihar, kill 3, injure many
[]


Nitish Kumar, Naveen Patnaik and Mamata in talks on federal front
[]


JD(U) prepares to walk out of NDA, L K Advani dials Nitish Kumar, Sharad
[]


Emergency 'propagandist' who banned Kishore Kumar songs
[]


China links rivers, Yangtze water flows in Yellow River
[]


Food security ordinance on Cabinet agenda tomorrow
[]


Both Advani, Rajnath step back after RSS chief brokers truce
[]


As Modi rises, JD-U hints it may quit NDA
[]


Enter Narendra Modi, exit L K Advani
[]


On hit list, businessmen, politicians line up for arms training
[]


L K Advani stays closeted at Delhi home, invokes Bhishma, Hitler
[]


P. Chidambaram attacks Narendra Modi, says CMs' opposition to NCTC will cost country
[]


L K Advani says Chouhan better than Narendra Modi
[]


Narayana Murthy comes out of retirement to head Infosys again
[]


Punjab clears online lotteries, law to allow race courses in state
[]


In signal to China, Manmohan Singh embraces Japan's idea
[]


Jyotiraditya Scindia says BCCI chief N. Srinivasan should go, Abdullah says no
[]


Meiyappan in the dock, police recover crucial evidence from CSK's official yacht
[]


Maoists kill top Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh
[]


Express Adda with Union Minister Kapil Sibal: Send us your questions
[]


Jessica Lall case: Shayan Munshi to face perjury trial
[]


BJP invokes 'sarcasm, ridicule' against PM
[]


IPL spot-fixing case: Net widens, police watching 3 more players, other bookies
[]


India and China ask Special Representatives to work on more border steps
[]


Rs 20L seized from Ajit Chandila relative's home, another ex-cricketer held
[]


Premier Li arrives on Sunday, PM likely to seek early resumption of border talks
[]


Laptops, footage seized, Sreesanth in fresh trouble
[]


Ajit Chandila owed money to many, says teammate, Chavan family shocked
[]


IPL 2013: Sreesanth, Chandila, Chavan caught fixing, IPL in a spot
[]


India, China must 'shake hands' to put Asia on top, says Li Keqiang
[]


Narendra Modi govt goes back on death penalty for Maya Kodnani
[]


After Supreme Court raps CBI, govt sets up GoM
[]


Rohtak villagers refuse to bury dead, demand action against ashram
[]


Ministers' sacking was a joint decision of PM and Sonia Gandhi, asserts Congress
[]


Maoists attack Doordarshan centre in Bastar, 3 cops killed
[]


Problem is hypersensitive India and political lobbies, not Censor Board, says Anurag Kashyap
[]


Railways returns to Joshi, Sibal gets crucial law ministry
[]


They hold a mirror to our times, Anurag and Dibakar are guests at Adda on Friday night
[]


Siddaramaiah seen ahead in Karnataka CM race
[]


Pakistani prisoner Sanaullah Ranjay loses battle for life, body sent back to Pakistan
[]


Supreme Court nod for Cairn-Vedanta deal
[]


Congress wins power in Karnataka, BJP crushed
[]


Heart of coal report changed, says SC
[]


CBI arrests Ajay Garg, millionaire 'associate' of Bansal's nephew who supplied equipment to Rlys
[]


Coal scam: Ashwani Kumar made two 'significant' deletions, says CBI
[]


Congress core group meets to decide Bansal fate
[]


Face-off ends, India and China to withdraw troops
[]


'Railway official was eyeing lucrative electrical post'
[]


Bansal won't quit, Congress decides to weather new crisis
[]


Sarabjit Singh cremated with state honours
[]


SC: Kalam favoured clemency for Assam convict, MHA kept Pratibha in dark
[]


Family back home in Punjab, I have lost everything, says his sister
[]


DGCA seeks fresh public objections after clearing AirAsia for take-off
[]


Yes Bank ties up with Teri to Promote Sustainable Development in India
[]


Govt must slash spending by Rs 1 trillion to meet fiscal target: Barclays
[]


Amit Mitra takes charge of Dept of Commerce and Industries, offers 'relationship managers' services to entrepreneurs
[]


Inflation in India to moderate in coming months: Arvind Mayaram
[]


CAD in India will come down to $50 bn in 2013-14: Arvind Mayaram
[]


Tata Sons, Singapore Airlines joint venture orders Airbus A320s
[]


BSE Sensex trading flat; Realty, FMCG, banking sector major losers
[]


SC asks if Centre intends to cancel coal blocks allocated after 2005
[]


Banks as insurance agents: Irda to meet CEOs to frame rules
[]


Facebook's first acquisition in India: Little Eye Labs
[]


Despite high-profile Ranbaxy alerts, US FDA finds India okay
[]


Only budget airlines at Mumbai airport's 1A, 1B terminals once T2 takes off
[]


Business confidence in India improves in Q1 2014: Dun and Bradstreet survey
[]


Bharatiya Janata Party's proposal to scrap income tax feasible, say experts
[]


Action on Walmart lobbying in India to depend on US probe, says Sachin Pilot
[]


2014 will not be any easier than 2013 for Indian rupee against US dollar, says HSBC
[]


Over 20 Indian-origin in Forbes list of 'brightest young stars'
[]


Manmohan Singh: Indian economy to grow at 5 pct, despair unwarranted
[]


Investment spurt will ensure 5% economic growth in 2013-14: Arvind Mayaram
[]


Chinese tycoon admits New York Times bid faces obstacles
[]


BSE Sensex headed for first daily gain of 2014, TCS, Sun Pharma gain
[]


Arrest Jignesh Shah, other accused: NSEL investors to Mumbai Police
[]


India sees sharp drop in patent applications
[]


TV viewership ratings to come under govt''s scanner
[]


Govt asks environment ministry to fast-track 27 major infra projects
[]


A fifth of NSE Nifty companies bag higher returns than index in 2013
[]


Tech shines, but banking funds worst of the lot in year gone by
[]


Carmakers baulk at proposal to tweak vehicle testing rules, says industry should not be penalised for GM fraud case
[]


Raghuram Rajan-effect: Nachiket Mor-led RBI panel wants banks exclusively for low income households, accounts for all
[]


Saudi may restrict expats' stay to 8 years, set to hit large number of Indian workers
[]


Insider trading: Another Indian-origin fund manager in Preet Bharara net
[]


Spain's princess summoned in money laundering case
[]


Gold price declines on sluggish demand, silver up on fresh buying
[]


Indian shares mark weakest start since 2011, Infosys, Reliance Industries, Tata Steel share prices drop
[]


Indian Oil Corp, Engineers India disinvestment lined up for Jan, BHEL, HAL to follow: Arvind Mayaram
[]


India's JSW Steel gains, key shareholders raise stakes
[]


Asia Index launches SandP BSE India 10-yr sovereign bond index
[]


View on Indian stock market: Policy boost a must for forward movement
[]


India's GDP growth may not see upward revision; revenue dept to miss tax target: Dipen Shah
[]


Samsung Electronics profit down 18 pc on huge $1 bn bonus payout; Galaxy S4, Note also lose out to iPhones
[]


Janet Yellen gets final stamp of approval to head US Federal Reserve
[]


Govt for FDI in e-commerce, floats discussion paper
[]


Delhi HC's order on CAG audit unlikely to hold in higher court: India Inc
[]


Six CAG teams to audit Delhi power firms since 2002
[]


Intensify reforms, cut subsidies for economic recovery: C Rangarajan
[]


TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Technologies may show muted growth in Q3
[]


Capital gains taxation and taxpayers: 3 steps to stop taxes from gaining on your capital
[]


India may ease gold import curbs: Sources
[]


JP Morgan Chase to pay $2 bn in Bernard Madoff probe over biggest Ponzi fraud on record: Reports
[]


MGAT seeks govt nod to repair 14 grounded aircraft of Kingfisher Airlines
[]


Companies may issue debt to non-residents as bonus, says RBI
[]


RBI likely to hold rates on January 28 policy review, says BofA-Merrill Lynch
[]


BSE Sensex hit by drop in ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries share prices
[]


Delhi High Court unleashes CAG on Bharti Airtel, Reliance Communications, powers Arvind Kejriwal's AAP
[]


HSBC PMI: India services downturn worsens in December but hiring picks up
[]


BSE Sensex trims losses, Tata Power, ICICI Bank share prices in major losers list
[]


As iron ore economy crumbles, ports, shippers seek alternatives
[]


Indian companies' debt sale dips 19.5% to $52bn, overseas bonds up 60% at $16bn
[]


Just Dial stock rally helps Amitabh Bachchan's holding grow to Rs 10 cr
[]


National Stock Exchange to remain 'forever young', says Chitra Ramkrishna
[]


Air India grounds VRS plan citing high attrition, lack of funds
[]


Foreign institutional investors' pour in over Rs 1,000 crore in equities
[]


Market capitalisation of six BSE Sensex companies down Rs 33,513 cr, ONGC worst hit
[]


Financial planners stay away from registration with Sebi
[]


GlaxoSmithKline seeks FIPB nod to hike stake in Indian arm
[]


Industrial output data begins countdown to RBI monetary policy review
[]


Gold snaps three-day rally, price falls by Rs 130 to Rs 30,360
[]


Govt committed to growth of IT sector: Manmohan Singh
[]


Tata Consultancy Services to set up world's largest corporate learning centre
[]


MCX-SX board appoints Ernst and Young for forensic audit
[]


Bharti Retail ropes in Raj Jain as CEO, Madan as CFO
[]


Real estate sector: Growth starting, but no bull-run yet
[]


Nokia''s guarantee serves no purpose, I-T tells Delhi High Court
[]


Private equity investments in India at lowest levels since 2009 at $7.5 billion
[]


Bajaj Allianz unveils all-women office, to hire 15,000
[]


Credit Suisse 'overweight' on Indian stock markets, bets big on cyclicals, defensives to lag
[]


Petrol price hiked 75p/ltr, diesel 50p with effect from midnight tonight
[]


Infosys kicks off earnings season
[]


India Inc gives Manmohan Singh thumbs up, says efforts needed to create employment, revive manufacturing sector
[]


BSE Sensex posts biggest weekly fall in 8, Tata Motors, Reliance Industries share prices drop
[]


Bharti Retail ropes in Raj Jain as CEO
[]


Manmohan Singh: India provides hospitable environment for FDI
[]


India's average economic growth during UPA I, II at 7.7 pct: PM report
[]


Credit Suisse overweight on Indian shares, bets on cyclicals
[]


Indian rupee down 15 paise against dollar in morning trade
[]


BSE Sensex falls on weak global shares, blue chips hit
[]


Govt plans to tweak revenue model in private airports
[]


Reliance Industries market turnover slips on lower gas output, SBI on top
[]


CNG price may be hiked due to Centre's guidelines: Delhi govt to High Court
[]


Demat allotment of preferential shares must for foreign investors: Sebi
[]


Bangalore to see second highest office demand in Asia in 2014
[]


Indian rupee falls 36 paise to 62.26 against US dollar, hits one-month low
[]


Indian rupee falls to 2-week low at 62.26 against dollar on weak shares
[]


BSE Sensex falls most in over a month, ICICI Bank, RIL, ITC share prices drop
[]


Sahara Group chief Subrata Roy moves Supreme Court seeking permission to go abroad
[]


Bullish outlook: IT, pharma stocks expected to hog limelight in 2014
[]


Sebi suspends registration of Baba Bhoothnath for 15 days
[]


LIC's claim settlement better than pvt insurers: Irda
[]


Mutual fund assets surge by Rs 85k cr to Rs 8.78 lakh cr in 2013, HDFC MF at the top
[]


Macau casinos hit jackpot with $45 billion revenue
[]


2013: The year of wages and unemployment
[]


Som Mittal, Nasscom chief says, 'I would still lose sleep on US Immigration Bill'
[]


Factory output in India slows as orders drop in December: HSBC Manufacturing PMI
[]


Fiat strikes $4.35 billion deal to buy rest of Chrysler Group LLC
[]


Probe panel says Orissa's illegal iron ore mining at Rs 60,000 crore
[]


Battle between Tata, Anil Ambani discoms and Kejriwal's AAP govt intensifies over CAG audit
[]


LPG price hiked by whopping Rs 220 per cylinder, get set for a dearer new year
[]


Nigella Lawson tells UK court she took cocaine
[]


Japan food seeks heritage gong as young spurn rice
[]


Indian restaurant hosts 'kabab', 'biryani' festival in Saudi Arabia
[]


Is Chef Ravinder Bhogal India''s very own Nigella Lawson?
[]


Soft drinks may cause kidney dysfunction
[]


Have begun using curry leaves in salads: Celebrity chef Gary
[]


Drinking coffee cuts liver cancer risk
[]


Chocolate Meltdown: The world will run out of cocoa by 2020
[]


Fertility problems? Don't skip breakfast!
[]


Wine glass shape determines how much you drink
[]


Drinking habits linked to partner violence
[]


Binge-drinking increases risk of underweight baby
[]


Orange juice may keep cancer at bay
[]


Alcohol does not cause depression: Study
[]


Craving for a chocolate fix? Prepare to pay more
[]


Now, fresh wild berries served on a platter
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Cairo's unwritten drinking rules
[]


Now, beer that won't give you a hangover
[]


Singaporeans splurge on spicy Indian food
[]


Red wine blunts benefits of exercise in men
[]


The Nashik hangover
[]


Fried and Tested
[]


Britain to bring curry festival to India
[]


New Chandigarh to have Holiday Inn Hotel
[]


Glenfiddich awarded 8 gold medals at I'ntl Spirits Challenge 2013
[]


One pint of beer a day boosts heart health: study
[]


Tara Deshpande cooks stories of Konkan kitchen
[]


Cutlery can influence taste of food
[]


A healthy lemonade chilled with a patriotic glow
[]


Metro Dining
[]


Shed 20 pounds eating at McDonald's every, single day: CEO
[]


White (H)eat
[]


Cinnamon may prevent Alzheimer's: study
[]


An exotic way to use mangoes in a salad
[]


CCD introduces 'Crunchy Frappe'
[]


'Gourmet of today can't be confined'
[]


Konkan Fruit Festival to be held between May 10-12
[]


Moms who eat junk-food set babies up for obesity
[]


The fresh, mainstream look of vegetarian cooking
[]


Rawism new mantra for healthy eaters
[]


Rise to the Bait
[]


Meal Tickets: Gujarati Flavours
[]


Man vs Food
[]


Have you tasted Goi cuon or Vietnamese Spring Rolls?
[]


Taste of beer releases 'feel-good' chemical in the brain
[]


'Western-style diet may lead to early death'
[]


What is a macaron and what makes it perfect?
[]


Once Havana's most famous bar, Sloppy Joe's reopens after 50 years
[]


People can 'see' flavour of foods before tasting them
[]


Keep heat at bay with indigenous tribal drink
[]


Now, fruit juice chocolates with 50 per cent less fat
[]


1,500-year-old wine factory unearthed in Israel
[]


How is the food at world's most expensive restaurant?
[]


Inside the World''s Best Restaurant
[]


Enjoy a 12-course meal atop a bus on Marine Drive!
[]


Black pepper: King of spices, enemy of ailments
[]


Island in the Mall
[]


South Africa's Debonairs Pizza to foray in India
[]


Finnish brewery to recreate beer discovered from 200-year-old shipwreck
[]


Now, chocolate-flavoured tea that is low on calories
[]


Here''s how a hangover can wreak havoc in the brain
[]


A Nizami Menu
[]


Self Service
[]


Bolivian President Evo Morales recommends coca wine to next Pope
[]


Secret to successful vegetarianism
[]


World''s best restaurant in hot water after 63 diners fall sick
[]


First Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt rose wine vintage sells out within hours
[]


Coca-Cola puts new sweetener in UK Sprite
[]


World's friendliest restaurant: US restaurateur with Down syndrome offers free hugs to customers
[]


McDonald's dropping Fruit and Walnut Salad, Chicken Selects in U.S.
[]


Now, tickle your palette with tobacco flavoured fish
[]


7 Indian restaurants named among Asia's top 50
[]


Now, a tastier loaf of bread
[]


Bronte sisters' home to become restaurant
[]


Duchess Catherine's sister Pippa to give cooking tips in Waitrose column
[]


Mediterranean diet can ward off heart disease: study
[]


Tea With a Twist
[]


Gurdeep Kohli turns chef
[]


Massive awards dinner a piece of cake, says Oscars chef Puck
[]


World Chefs: Matt Lightner makes splash with cutting-edge cuisine
[]


Japan's raunchy restaurant uses 'fembots' instead of women to dance for customers
[]


Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie to release their own wine
[]


Wine and dine this Valentine's Day to win your lady love''s heart
[]


World Chefs: Perelman offers pointers for great recipe hunting
[]


Starbucks in Delhi, to brew it up for Indian palette
[]


Now, Taipei cafe dedicated to Barbie
[]


China's growing Australian wine thirst
[]


From Science lectures to Science cafe!
[]


Top restaurant crazy cities in US revealed
[]


`Foodstagramming` banned by top NY chefs
[]


Now, melt-proof chocolate biscuit that can resist warm temperatures
[]


Brit restaurant serves up world's most expensive bacon sandwich
[]


Now, dirt becomes key ingredient of a full course meal
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Cairo's unwritten drinking rules
[]


How to chill your beer for longer!
[]


Would love to highlight Kolkata street food: Harpal Sokhi
[]


Poppy seeds are nutritious, but don''t eat too many
[]


US black, poor youth consume more sugar-laden drinks: study
[]


Adults 'getting substantial calories from alcohol'
[]


New York eatery offering $2k pasta on menu
[]


Pasta with no carbs and almost no calories? No way
[]


Making whole wheat bread more appealing in taste and smell
[]


Scientists develop eco-friendly prawn feed from grass
[]


Too much diet soda and sweetened drinks could lead to depression
[]


Now, a beer just for dogs named Dawg Grog!
[]


New characteristic of binge eating identified
[]


Mexico bakes nearly one and half kilometre 'rosca' cake!
[]


Dieters 'often ignore alcohol calories'
[]


77 pc Britishers unaware of salt, sugar and fat in their food
[]


World Chefs: Philippe Orrico's white truffle dreams in Hong Kong
[]


New Orleans restaurants revive Creole custom
[]


Carrot beats turkey to become the favourite Christmas dinner
[]


Chandigarh turning hot spot for food chains
[]


Elephant dung coffee: An exotic brew at $50
[]


Mediterranean diet 'not affordable by poorest anymore'
[]


Becks teams up with pal Gordon Ramsay to open restaurant
[]


Tokyo is Michelin's most gourmet capital for sixth year
[]


New Cadbury chocolates that don''t melt in hot weather
[]


'MasterChef' inspiring men to cook more meals than women: survey
[]


Low calorie diet can slow down ageing: study
[]


Holland to ban 'dangerous'' 'skunk'' marijuana from coffee shops
[]


Food companies labelling fatty kids' snacks as healthy
[]


Bite-sized desserts all the rage this fest
[]


Giuliani Dacasto takes Italian home cooking to new level in Hong Kong
[]


Blogger Lite
[]


It's official! Vegetarians live longer than meat-eaters: study
[]


Most diners too scared to order wine: study
[]


World's costliest cocktail at 5,500 pounds per glass
[]


World''s 10 most expensive burgers revealed
[]


2 men banned at all-you-can-eat UK joint for eating too much
[]


Sweet Magnolias cookbook takes favorites from fiction to fact
[]


UEI Global organises wine tasting session
[]


1970 'Extraordinary Cask' whiskey goes on sale for $5k per bottle
[]


Singapore Airlines unveils Silverkris lounge at IGI
[]


Beer exposed to nuclear bomb blast 'okay' to drink: US study
[]


Ginger tea can reduce stress, aid digestion: experts
[]


Best Foods plans to have 800 outlets in the country by 2015
[]


Indian chef's signature dish to adorn the skies
[]


Now, UK eatery unveils 'Mahatma Thali'
[]


Bacon-lover using meat to pay for travelling across US
[]


Unique chilly that refuses to spread out
[]


InterContinental Hotels to open 190 hotels in India by 2016
[]


'Tokyo world's costliest city for food'
[]


White bread is good for your health: study
[]


McDonald''s to post calorie counts on menus at restaurants across US
[]


World Chefs: Gourmet standing restaurant a Tokyo hit
[]


Indian origin chef's curry can stave off cough and cold
[]


121 Kitchen: BarBQ is the newest restaurant on the block in Wakad
[]


Meal tickets: The far West
[]


The dinner I would like to come home to
[]


Jain-uinely Good
[]


White House beer recipe to be out soon, says Obama
[]


Cup of tea and cucumber sandwich 'best way keep cool during heatwave'
[]


Sarabjit Singh returns in a coffin, PM calls him a 'brave son of India'
[]


Army Chief briefs CCS on border standoff with China
[]


'Very disturbed, trust eroded': SC hauls CBI over the coals
[]


Sushma Swaraj says Sonia Gandhi undemocratic, BJP to 'boycott'' meetings
[]


Sajjan acquitted in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, shoe hurled at judge
[]


India seeks to move Sarabjit Singh home for treatment
[]


Shared coal status report with law minister, CBI chief tells SC
[]


Police behaviour worse than mad animals', will intervene directly now, SC warns states
[]


SFIO to probe Sudipta Sen's Saradha Group chit fund operations
[]


China sticks to line, third flag meet likely
[]


4 held in Tamil Nadu for blast near BJP office in Bangalore
[]


Saradha Group chit fund 'kingpin' Sudipta Sen arrested in J-K
[]


UPA and BJP locked in standoff over coal report
[]


Will quit 1,000 times if it solves rape problem: Delhi top cop
[]


Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD's modernist face, at Adda on Tuesday night
[]


RS uproar over vetting of coal report
[]


Victory over Japanese at Kohima named Britain's greatest battle
[]


Oppn to target govt on JPC, coal reports
[]


Amid protests over rape, PM calls for 'vast improvement'' in women''s safety
[]


Damned by JPC, Raja hits back: 'Did everything in consultation with the PM''
[]


Day after Sanjay Dutt, SC gives 7 others four more weeks to surrender
[]


Govt reaches consensus on Land Bill
[]


SC lifts ban on 90 Karnataka mines, cancels 49 leases
[]


Supreme Court tells Vedanta to get gram sabha nod for Niyamgiri mining
[]


Supreme Court stays own order on info commissioners
[]


Twin bombs kill three in Boston
[]


Coal report: Congress backs Ashwani, CBI claims it is under no pressure
[]


Badal asks Manmohan to stop Bhullar hanging, cites 'emotional damage''
[]


Sanjay Dutt seeks six more months to surrender
[]


Himayat Baig, only man arrested for German Bakery blast, found guilty
[]


Nitish Kumar doesn't mince words, BJP smarts
[]


UPA rogue govt, says BJP, seeks SIT probe in coal blocks row
[]


Committed to liberalising insurance: PM
[]


Clash of chess titans comes to India, Chennai awaits Viswanathan Anand
[]


Pune bus driver who mowed down 9 in rush-hour rampage gets death
[]


Narendra Modi for more FDI in defence production
[]


Govt probing those named in tax haven expose: Chidambaram
[]


I am active in politics with a dream, Advani reminds party
[]


British woman killed at Dal Lake, Dutch held
[]


Thane building collapse death toll reaches 56
[]


India a 'beehive' of energy, Rahul Gandhi tells leaders of industry
[]


Days after TPC massacre, Maoists counterattack, kill five policemen
[]


PM-Sonia ties 'ideal model'' for future: Cong
[]


SC slaps Rs 100-cr fine on Sterlite for pollution, but sets aside closure order
[]


USFDA approves safer diabetes drug which acts on kidneys
[]


SC rejects Novartis plea for patent protection
[]


Narendra Modi takes centre stage with aide Shah, Rajnath has his say
[]


Lawmakers invite Gujarat CM Narendra Modi to visit US, to take up visa issue
[]


Moneybags BSP leader shot in Delhi farmhouse
[]


Sri Lankan players to stay away from Chennai
[]


Shinde says NIA to probe Liyaqat arrest, Delhi Police are 'not aware'
[]


Days after pullout, Alagiri skips crucial DMK meeting
[]


168 Armymen face action for Nyoma clash
[]


India clinch first 4-0 series win
[]


Musharraf returns home, says will 'save'' Pak
[]


Sanjay Dutt gets 5 yrs, Yakub Memon death
[]


India votes against Lanka in Geneva
[]


Egg on govt face after CBI raids Stalin
[]


DMK walks out of UPA but leaves a window open
[]


Mulayam takes 'cut' to back UPA: Beni
[]


3 top Cong ministers at Karuna door
[]


Man who hosted CRPF camp attackers held in Baramulla
[]


DMK renews threat to pull out of UPA
[]


Don't watch Jolly LLB if it offends you, SC tells lawyers
[]


SC stops Italian envoy from leaving country
[]


PM warns Italy of 'consequences', envoy says need 'consensual' end
[]


Five CRPF men killed in Srinagar as 3-year lull in attacks ends
[]


I'd like to remake Hollywood film in India, says Steven Spielberg
[]


Italian marines case: India may ask Italy envoy to leave
[]


JandK rape accused flees in VIP chopper
[]


Australia suspend 4 top players, Clarke says 'not just one incident''
[]


Gangrape accused Ram Singh found hanging in his Tihar cell
[]


Ram Singh expelled, cops to quiz Vijender
[]


Former minister Bagrodia's brother questioned by CBI on chopper deal
[]


Named in drug bust, Vijender fights back
[]


Virender Sehwag dropped, says, 'Trust my game, will be back', he says
[]


DSP killing: CBI books Raja Bhaiya for murder
[]


CBI questions ex-IAF chief Tyagi, cousins for 4 hrs
[]


PM targets BJP, cites UPA growth rate
[]


After Baramulla youth is shot dead, Omar Abdullah breaks down
[]


Raja Bhaiya quits, Akhilesh Yadav says CBI will probe
[]


Pranab visit runs into Bangla tension, Zia cancels meet
[]


L K Advani seeks a BJP 'charter of commitments to minorities'
[]


Keeping BJP flank covered, Modi takes battle to 'termite' Cong
[]


Govt denies tapping Jaitley phones, promises House a thorough probe
[]


Govt clarifies rules of Mauritius investments
[]


FM begins repairs, cuts spending, meets fiscal deficit target, taxes 'super rich'
[]


After Omar, Mufti, Kashmir civil society writers to PM, seeks return of Guru's body
[]


Dawn fire kills 20 in Kolkata
[]


'Jobs crunch looms, need growth and labour reform'
[]


Hold tax rates, widen net, says Survey
[]


The voice of Shahbagh Square is a 22-year-old college student
[]


Reform Express rolls, rail budget links fares, freight rates to the price of fuel
[]


The Financial Express: Most Read Stories on Tuesday
[]


Nepal top judge ignores court, agrees to be PM
[]


Pakistani TV anchors turn moral police, spark outrage
[]


The Financial Express: Most Read Stories on Monday
[]


What to expect in Budget 2013? What is in it for country? For us?
[]


Army PRO, five others detained in drug haul
[]


'Super King' Dhoni's double ton gives India 135-run lead
[]


Govt trying to boost growth, investments, says President
[]


CBI arrests Gujarat cadre IPS officer in Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case
[]


On eve of budget session, Shinde 'regrets' saffron terror remarks
[]


94 years after massacre, a British PM is headed to Jallianwala
[]


The Financial Express: Most Read Stories on Tuesday
[]


Hanging of Veerappan men stayed
[]


Nagaland minister detained, cash, arms seized
[]


Bid to get Jaitley call records a 'higher level conspiracy'': Police
[]


Ready to discuss deal in Parliament, says PM
[]


The Financial Express: Most Read Stories on Monday
[]


Ex-encounter specialist held for builder killing
[]


Tech push brings tiger habitat 'alive'' in Karnataka reserve
[]


After hanging, JandK Police counselled its men to stay calm, do job
[]


Four terror strikes between '07 and '11 when Fasih was in India, say police
[]


Chopper firm puts up brave face, says deal not scrapped
[]


Deal took off after ex-Italian President''s visit
[]


In election season, a few dark thoughts in Meghalaya coal belt
[]


Local polls violence caught Goalpara victims unawares
[]


NDA changed specs, UPA implemented: MoD
[]


Berlusconi says, bribes are necessary for doing business globally
[]


Most read stories on FE
[]


CBI questions timing of CD, says wrong to say 2G trial hit
[]


First time in 600 yrs, ailing Pope 'retires''
[]


Tunnel found in Sabarmati jail cell housing blasts suspects
[]


Was on phone with Afzal''s wife when cops came: Geelani
[]


May consider Guru family's request to visit grave: Govt
[]


Rape convict places Kurien at the scene, time of 'crime'
[]


Govt disagrees with Central Statistics Office on 5% GDP growth
[]


C''garh police, injured cop''s doctor decry Air Chief''s 'inhuman'' remark
[]


Crew did not abandon injured cop, faced 'hostage situation'': IAF chief
[]


SC pulls up CBI over delay in appealing Babri verdict
[]


FY ''12-13 GDP growth seen at 5 pc, lowest in decade
[]


4 Congmen named to Andhra info commission
[]


Narendra Modi: I am different, can bring change
[]


5 Indian-origin men charged in largest credit card fraud in US
[]


Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor December sales up, Mahindra and Mahindra, others fail to keep pace
[]


BSE Sensex logs first drop on opening trading day in 7 years
[]


Insider trading, risk management key focus areas for 2014: Sebi
[]


New Year cheer: 8.5 lakh new jobs, 20% pay hike in 2014
[]


Tata Power welcomes Arvind Kejriwal govt's move to provide power subsidy in Delhi
[]


World indices finish vintage year, more gains seen in 2014
[]


Gold notches biggest annual loss in 32 years
[]


BSE Sensex starts new year on firm note, still up by 26 points
[]


Apple Inc denies 'backdoor' NSA access to iPhones
[]


Indian rupee drops 16 paise against US dollar
[]


Likely in 2014: Royalty break, tax holiday in mega oil push
[]


Public sector insurers stage coup in mediclaim business
[]


Chinese recycling tycoon says he wants to buy the New York Times
[]


Infosys may see positive impact on margin by 40-50 bps in Q3
[]


Cyrus Pallonji Mistry calls for openness, synergy among Tata Group cos
[]


Industry loan growth continues to be weak, grows at just 13.7%
[]


India's infrastructure sector growth slows to 1.7 pc in November on poor natural gas show
[]


Developers optimistic of revival in realty sector in 2014
[]


StockGuru scam: ED attaches assets worth Rs 83 crore of couple
[]


Banks non-performing assets likely to rise further in 2014: Assocham
[]


Gold, silver prices remain weak on sustained selling, global cues
[]


Electronics attracted Rs 62,000 cr investment proposal in 2013
[]


BSE Sensex rises 28 pts, ends 2013 on a promising note with 9 pct gain
[]


World stock markets enjoy vintage 2013, seen gaining more in 2014
[]


From Subrata Roy's Sahara Group to sundry SMS scams, 2013 turns into year of empowerment for Sebi
[]


Central Vigilance Commission recommends action against Suresh Kalmadi, probes multi-crore scams
[]


Some improvement expected in Indian economy after a bad 2013
[]


Trent Ltd share price gains after panel approves Tesco's multi-brand retail deal
[]


Paying for past sins: Banks in for long period of pain
[]


Apollo Tyres share price rise 12 pct after Cooper deal collapses
[]


FIPB clears Tesco''s plan to set shop in the country
[]


Banks allowed to lend up to Rs 1 lakh against gold jewellery
[]


FIPB clears Tesco's $110 mn multi-brand retail proposal for 50% stake in Tata Trent
[]


FIPB clears Vodafone Group Plc's Rs 10,141 crore plan to fully own India unit
[]


BSE Sensex closes lower, Infosys Ltd, ICICI Bank share prices a drag
[]


FMC gives more time for auditing crisis-hit NSEL's e-series contracts
[]


P-Notes investment in India slips to Rs 1.83 lakh crore in November
[]


Raghuram Rajan's RBI warns Indian economy may suffer poll pain pangs on fractured mandate in 2014
[]


Indian banks assets under stress rise, may get worse : Reserve Bank of India
[]


Raghuram Rajan: Inflation limiting RBI's ability to boost economic growth in India
[]


Indian rupee down 17 paise against dollar in early trade
[]


Arvind Kejriwal inherits sound fiscal, liabilities limited
[]


2013: The year private equity investors earned $600 mn
[]


Sporting business: An open field for entrepreneurs
[]


10 stocks to look out for in 2014: Sesa Sterlite, Wipro, Torrent Pharma, more
[]


HCL emerges top contender for £80-100 million UK deal
[]


Govt starts prosecution proceedings in alleged fraud at Reebok India
[]


Harried Kingfisher Airlines employees to turn to Arvind Kejriwal for help
[]


India needs FTAs, can't have wall around itself: Anand Sharma
[]


Forward movement for Indian aviation industry in 2013
[]


Ambanis, Mittal, Tata, Sahara face tough 2013 in courts
[]


Mutual Fund industry's asset base grows by Rs 1 lakh crore in 2013
[]


Market capitalisation of eight BSE Sensex firms up Rs 25,815 cr, Tata Consultancy Services, ONGC shine
[]


Govt delays spectrum sale to February 3
[]


BSE Sensex poised to cross another milestone in new year
[]


Gold price rises for second day, up Rs 120 to Rs 30,120
[]


Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook gives up performance bonus, takes home $4.25 mn as salary in 2013
[]


Tata Sons-Singapore Airlines JV reaches second stage, applies to civil aviation ministry for NOC
[]


Rs 90k cr shy of revenue target, govt may slash expenditure
[]


Offer for Tata Group's Blue hotel property  in Sydney falls through
[]


HCL Technologies steals the show in 2013, TCS still on top with Rs 6.69L crore market wealth
[]


Auto industry: Out of the woods yet?
[]


CCI okays Vijay Mallya's United Spirits deal to sell Tamil Nadu distillery
[]


Indian rupee gains tracking shares against US dollar to 61.85
[]


BSE Sensex gains; US economy prospects bolster TCS, Infosys Ltd, Wipro share prices, outlook +ive
[]


Gold price up Rs 100 to Rs 30,000 on fresh stockists buying, global cues
[]


Airtel pre-paid users can access Facebook in 9 local languages
[]


India to be world's third largest economy by 2028 after China, US, says Cebr
[]


EPFO to initiate process to hire new fund managers for Rs 5 lakh crore corpus
[]


Maruti Suzuki shares downgraded to 'sell' by Kotak Institutional Equities
[]


CNG price hike due to court orders: Indraprastha Gas Ltd
[]


Multi Commodity Exchange, Financial Technologies share prices plunge 9 pct
[]


How Google, Huffington Post are trying to fight nasty comments, anonymity
[]


McDonald's closes employee website amid criticism
[]


Indian rupee edges up to 62.15 against US dollar in late morning trade
[]


BSE Sensex up over 100 points, Infosys near record high
[]


RBI, government try to get a grip on Bitcoin business
[]


Interest-free loans to sugar mills get CCEA approval
[]


Large telcos' profit growth to double in 2 years : Crisil
[]


India should cut debt in 5-6 years: Montek Singh Ahluwalia
[]


Telecom companies profit growth to double in next two years: CRISIL
[]


Onion export floor price more than halved to $150 a tonne
[]


Adani Gas reduces prices of CNG by Rs 10 and PNG by Rs 8
[]


CNG price hiked in Delhi and NCR by Rs 4.50/kg, PNG rates by Rs 5.15/kg
[]


Study says 47 pct of Indian graduates in 2013 unemployable for any job
[]


Bitcoin operators shut shop in India amid RBI warning
[]


Gold price falls Rs 275, dips below Rs 30k level after 4 months
[]


BSE Sensex rises nearly 42 pts, HDFC Bank, Infosys Ltd and Tata Power share prices surge
[]


Sebi bats for tax breaks to attract pension money to market
[]


Axis Bank gets govt nod for hiking foreign investment from 49 pc to 62 pc
[]


India Inc happy with new laws in 2013, expects further reforms
[]


Poor economic growth in India in 2013 derails Planning Commission's target in 12th Plan
[]


Gold price steady but set for biggest annual loss in 3 decades
[]


BSE Sensex gains 33.94 points, BPCL, ONGC, Tata Power share prices rise
[]


Indian rupee down 12 paise to 61.91 against US dollar
[]


CPI update: Lower weightage on food, new base year
[]


Crunch in seat capacity behind high domestic air fares
[]


As year-end nears, tax evaders rush
[]


ISRO to shift satellite launch boundary for oil exploration by Cairn India, Tata, ONGC
[]


Check gold smuggling by some of your staff, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence tells Air India
[]


CDMA spectrum: Standoff continues as Trai questions DoT again
[]


Morgan Stanley keen to start proprietary trading in India
[]


IPO advertisements can be innovative, but risk disclosures must: Sebi
[]


India Inc raises a staggering Rs 4 lakh crore funds in 2013
[]


A Suzuki minicar named Hustler? Japan's salacious brand names raise eyebrows
[]


Indian stock markets shine bright, gold's glitter fades in 2013, BSE Sensex gains 9 pct
[]


Yearender: Global FMCG majors PepsiCo, Unilever, GlaxoSmithKline bet big on India
[]


5 ways US Federal Reserve's influence expanded in 100 yrs
[]


Fog once again hit operations a IGI airport, over 100 flight delayed
[]


American Express to pay $75.7 mn for overbilling
[]


Arvind Kejriwal may announce power tariff cut after taking oath as Delhi  CM
[]


Britain investigates claims of bribery at Rolls-Royce
[]


International Finance Corporation plans to launch $1-1.5-bn Asia Fund
[]


Sebi frames rules to regulate fund pooling, indemnify investors
[]


Review: 'The Secret Life of Walter Mitty'
[]


Review: 'The Wolf of Wall Street'
[]


Movie review: Paul Walker's last outing 'Hours'
[]


Movie review: 'Walking with the Dinosaurs 3D'
[]


Review: 'Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2'
[]


Hobbit! Dwarves! Action!
[]


Movie Review: The Hunger Games Catching Fire
[]


Movie review: Delivery Man
[]


Movie Review of 'Thor: The Dark World'
[]


Movie review: 'Fire In The Blood'
[]


Movie review: White House Down
[]


Review Man of Steel: The word superman is kept at arm's length
[]


Review: Now You See Me
[]


Review: The Great Gatsby
[]


Review: The Reluctant Fundamentalist is Mira Nair's most engaging work
[]


Movie Review: Iron Man 3
[]


Movie review: The Croods
[]


Movie review: The Host
[]


Movie Review: Snitch
[]


Movie Review: The Call
[]


Movie Review: G.I. Joe: Retaliation
[]


Movie Review: Olympus Has Fallen
[]


Movie Reiew: Django Unchained
[]


Review: The Master
[]


Review: 21 and Over
[]


Review: Oz the Great and Powerful
[]


Review: Jack The Giant Slayer
[]


Review: A Good Day To Die Hard
[]


Review: Silver Linings Playbook
[]


Review: Bullet to the Head
[]


Review: Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters
[]


Review: Broken City
[]


Review: Les Miserables
[]


Review: Gangster Squad
[]


Review: The Impossible
[]


Review: Jack Reacher
[]


Review: Rise of the Guardians
[]


Review: THE HOBBIT: An Unexpected Journey
[]


Review: Red Dawn
[]


Playing For Keeps
[]


Hotel Transylvania
[]


Review: The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn II
[]


Stolen
[]


Wreck-it Ralph
[]


Review: Trouble With The Curve
[]


Review: Skyfall
[]


Review: Cloud Atlas
[]


Review: Ted
[]


Review: Paranormal Activity 4
[]


Review: Premium Rush
[]


Review: Argo
[]


Taken 2
[]


Looper
[]


Review: The Possession
[]


Review: Killing Them Softly
[]


Resident Evil: Retribution
[]


Review: Dredd
[]


Review: Moonrise Kingdom
[]


Gone: Review
[]


Arbitrage: Review
[]


To Rome With Love
[]


Hit And Run
[]


Bel Ami
[]


The Campaign
[]


The Expendables 2
[]


Red Lights
[]


The Cold Light Of Day
[]


The Bourne Legacy
[]


Total Recall
[]


Ice Age: Continental Drift
[]


The Dark Knight Rises
[]


Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter
[]


The Intouchables
[]


Dylan Dog: Dead Of Night
[]


The Amazing Spider-man
[]


Street Dance 2
[]


Rock of Ages
[]


Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted
[]


Prometheus
[]


Horrible Bosses
[]


Snow White and the Huntsman
[]


The Grey
[]


Men in Black III
[]


Dr Seuss'' The Lorax
[]


Don't Be Afraid Of The Dark
[]


The Raven
[]


The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel
[]


Dark Shadows
[]


The Raid: Redemption
[]


Safe
[]


The Lucky One
[]


Hugo
[]


The Avengers
[]


21 Jump Street
[]


Mirror Mirror
[]


Battleship
[]


Titanic 3D
[]


Wrath of the Titans
[]


The Hunger Games
[]


This Means War
[]


The Vow
[]


John Carter
[]


Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close
[]


The Iron Lady
[]


My Week With Marilyn
[]


Moneyball
[]


Carnage
[]


The Artist
[]


Ghost Rider: The Spirit of Vengeance
[]


Safe House
[]


The Woman In Black
[]


Lol
[]


War horse
[]


Journey 2: The Mysterious Island
[]


Man On A Ledge
[]


Chronicle
[]


The Descendants
[]


Contraband
[]


Haywire
[]


Coriolanus
[]


The Darkest Hour
[]


Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy
[]


Sherlock Holmes: The Game of Shadows
[]


Mission Impossible: The Ghost Protocol
[]


New Year''s Eve
[]


Machine Gun Preacher
[]


Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy
[]


Young Adult
[]


The Sitter
[]


Puss In Boots
[]


The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn I
[]


The Help
[]


Happy Feet 2
[]


The Ides Of March
[]


Happy Feet Two
[]


The Descendants
[]


Into the Abyss
[]


Melancholia
[]


Tower Heist
[]


Very Harold and Kumar 3D Christmas
[]


The Rum Diary
[]


Super 8
[]


The Three Musketeers
[]


Drive
[]


Sarah Palin: You Betcha!
[]


Margaret
[]


50/50
[]


Take Shelter
[]


Abduction
[]


Johnny English Reborn
[]


Moneyball
[]


Pearl Jam Twenty
[]


Killer Elite
[]


Crazy, Stupid, Love.
[]


Captain America: The First Avenger
[]


Drive
[]


Restless
[]


I Don't Know How She Does It
[]


Friends with Benefits
[]


Contagion
[]


Conan The Barbarian
[]


Brighton Rock
[]


Higher Ground
[]


Don't Be Afraid of the Dark
[]


Bad Teacher
[]


SPY KIDS 4D: All the Time in the World
[]


The Devil's Double
[]


Fright Night
[]


One Day
[]


Winnie The Pooh
[]


30 Minutes or Less
[]


Senna
[]


Glee: The 3D Concert Movie
[]


The Help
[]


Cowboys and Aliens
[]


Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows Part 2
[]


Larry Crowne
[]


Transformers : Dark Of The Moon
[]


Cars 2
[]


Rango
[]


The Resident
[]


The Green Lantern
[]


X Men:First Class
[]


Hanna
[]


Something Borrowed
[]


Hangover 2
[]


Kung Fu Panda 2
[]


Pirates of the Caribbean: On stranger tides
[]


Arthur (English)
[]


Arthur
[]


Priest
[]


Everything Must Go
[]


Hesher
[]


Bridesmaids
[]


Water for Elephants
[]


Jumping the Broom
[]


Fast Five
[]


The Beaver
[]


Something Borrowed
[]


Thor
[]


Limitless
[]


Source Code
[]


Hoodwinked Too! Hood vs. Evil
[]


Prom
[]


Fast Five
[]


Yogi Bear
[]


Meek's Cutoff
[]


African Cats
[]


Water for Elephants
[]


Rango
[]


Unknown
[]


SCRE4M
[]


Splice
[]


Faking It
[]


Bird''s Eye View
[]


A Very Brief Case
[]


Here Angels Tread
[]


The Eagle
[]


Barney's Version
[]


Sucker Punch
[]


Barney''s Version
[]


The Hole 3-D
[]


Red Riding Hood
[]


From Prada To Nada
[]


WORLD INVASION: BATTLE LOS ANGELES
[]


Hereafter
[]


The Way Back
[]


The King's Speech
[]


Black Swan
[]


Hall Pass
[]


True Grit
[]


The Fighter
[]


How Do You Know
[]


Rabbit Hole
[]


The Rite
[]


The Mechanic
[]


No Strings Attached
[]


Sanctum
[]


Alpha and Omega
[]


Biutiful
[]


Burlesque
[]


127 Hours
[]


Another Year
[]


Little Fockers
[]


The Green Hornet
[]


Fair Game
[]


Life As We Know It
[]


Gulliver's Travels
[]


The Tourist
[]


Megamind
[]


Tron: The Legacy
[]


You Will Meet A Tall Dark Stranger
[]


Faster
[]


The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader
[]


Unstoppable
[]


Red
[]


Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
[]


The Social Network
[]


Due Date
[]


Piranha
[]


From Paris with Love
[]


The Switch
[]


Beauty and The Beast
[]


Wall Street: Money never sleeps
[]


Shanghai
[]


Resident Evil: Afterlife
[]


Hot Tub Time Machine
[]


Grown Ups
[]


Despicable Me
[]


Predators
[]


Sex And The City 2
[]


Shrek Forever After
[]


Date Night
[]


Clash of the Titans
[]


The Lovely Bones
[]


Invictus
[]


Couples Retreat
[]


Did You Hear About the Morgans?
[]


Paranormal Activity
[]


Sherlock Holmes
[]


Year One
[]


The Rebound
[]


The taking of Pelham 123
[]


Public Enemies
[]


Movie review: RED CLIFF
[]


Movie review: Ice Age 3- Dawn Of The Dinosaurs
[]


Theresa May offers MPs Brexit delay vote
['Read more about sharing.', "Theresa May has promised MPs a vote on delaying the UK's departure from the EU or ruling out a no-deal Brexit, if they reject her deal next month.", 'Mrs May is making a statement to MPs on Brexit, amid the threat of a revolt by Remain-supporting ministers.', 'The prime minister promised MPs a meaningful vote on her Brexit deal by 12 March.', 'Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn accused the prime minister of trying to "string" the Brexit process out.', 'Which Brexit amendments will be tabled?', 'The prime minister said she will put her withdrawal agreement  - including any changes she has agreed with the EU - to a meaningful vote by 12 March.', "Theresa May's big concession - and it was a significant tactical retreat - was about buying herself more time.", 'So now, under the threat of maybe 15 to 20 ministers rebelling, the prime minister\'s promised MPs an opportunity next month to rule out a no-deal Brexit, and force a "limited" delay in leaving the EU.', "Without that promise, there's every chance those unhappy ministers would have joined other MPs in voting to rule out no-deal and delay Brexit anyway.", 'She did not offer ministers freedom to vote as they choose. So now the (potential) rebels must decide whether to hold fire for a fortnight, while she tries to get terms in Brussels she can sell to the Commons - hoping Brexiteers ultimately back her deal as the best Brexit available.', 'Call it "running down the clock", or "kicking the can down the road", if you like.', "But kicking and running has been Mrs May's best hope for months.", 'Extending Article 50 would require the unanimous backing of the other 27 EU member states and, she said, she had not had conversations about it with them.', 'The sequence of votes will be proposed on Wednesday in an amendable motion for MPs to debate and vote on.', 'Mrs May repeatedly declined to say whether she would vote against a no-deal Brexit, and whether Tory MPs would be whipped to vote for or against it.', 'The move is an attempt to avoid a defeat for the government on Wednesday, which could see MPs taking control of the Brexit process.', "Will Tory rebels accept May's offer?", 'Several Remain-backing ministers were threatening to resign, so that they could vote for a cross-party amendment aimed at ruling out a no-deal Brexit.', 'He told BBC Radio 4\'s The World at One that "a lot depends on the detail" and he was awaiting a briefing from Tory Sir Oliver Letwin, one of the architects of the cross-party amendment.', 'Other rebels have yet to comment.', 'But opponents of Mrs May who support another EU referendum said she had still not ruled out a no-deal Brexit.', 'The Independent Group\'s Anna Soubry, who quit the Conservatives in protest at their Brexit policy, said it was a "shameful moment" and "nothing has changed".', 'Conservative and former attorney general Dominic Grieve accused the PM of "browbeating" MPs to accept a "second-rate" deal which had been decisively rejected once and was likely to be done so again.', 'What about Tory Brexiteers?', 'Brexiteer and former Cabinet minister Theresa Villiers said: "It\'s frustrating that the prime minister is partially backtracking on her repeated statements that we would leave on 29 March.', 'It was a point echoed by former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith, but he added that he welcomed the PM\'s statement, and it was "clearly right that we want to have a deal".', "But other Brexiteers warned extending Article 50 could undermine the UK's negotiating position in Brussels.", 'Jeremy Corbyn said he had "lost count" of the prime minister\'s explanations for her "grotesquely reckless" Brexit delays.', "Mr Corbyn says Labour will get behind another EU referendum if the party can't get its own Brexit proposals through Parliament on Wednesday.", "If Mrs May's Brexit deal gets through Parliament next month, Labour wants it to be put to a public vote - with remaining in the EU as the other option.", 'Separately, Mrs May said the government was publishing a paper assessing its readiness for a no-deal Brexit and the "very serious challenges" it would pose.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


French Islamic State accused handed over to face trial in Iraq
['Read more about sharing.', 'Thirteen French citizens accused of fighting for the Islamic State group are to be tried in Iraq rather than face charges back home in France.', 'Iraqi President Barham Saleh said the 13 were handed over by Syrian Kurdish forces last month.', 'French President Emmanuel Macron declined to comment, saying it was a sovereign matter for Iraq.', 'The news comes as several Western countries struggle with the fate of alleged militants returning from Syria.', 'How do countries deal with IS returnees?', 'How many IS foreign fighters are left?', 'The UK, Belgium, the Netherlands and the United States have all grappled with the question of whether to allow those who left to join the Islamic State to return - and potentially face prosecution when they do.', 'What will happen to the French?', 'The fate of the 13 French citizens was revealed during a press conference between presidents Macron and Saleh in France, following bilateral talks.', 'They are due to be tried on terrorist charges - which may carry the death penalty under Iraqi law.', 'French broadcaster BFMTV reports that it will make no difference whether they are accused of directly fighting for the Islamic State group, or merely providing other assistance to it - the penalty remains the same.', 'In France, the government says those who commit such crimes abroad should be tried in the territory in which the offence occurred, a stance it has repeated recently amid a global debate on returnees from Syria.', 'Despite facing trial abroad, the French captives can expect the normal consular assistance offered by the republic to any of its citizens jailed in a foreign country.', "Iraq's decision to prosecute the 13 allows France to sidestep the political maze facing many other countries - though some reports suggest there may be dozens of other French captives awaiting a similar fate.", 'The French case is the latest development in an ongoing crisis about how to treat those who travelled to Syria during its civil war, but now want to return to their home countries in Europe.', 'What is the wider context?', 'Kurdish fighters from the Syrian Defence Forces (SDF) hold hundreds of prisoners captured during their fight against the IS group. But the SDF is an alliance of militias, and has warned that they cannot prosecute their captives and imprison them indefinitely.', 'US President Donald Trump, meanwhile, has urged European countries to take custody of their citizens and put them on trial - warning that if they refuse, the prisoners may simply be released instead.', 'The question over their fate has prompted national debate in several countries.', 'The UK has instead said it will strip her of her citizenship - arguing that it can do so despite international law, because she is entitled to Bangladeshi citizenship through inheritance.', 'Her husband is a Dutch convert to Islam, and is thought to have surrendered to a group of Syrian fighters about two weeks ago. She has previously said she may apply for Dutch citizenship.', 'Meanwhile, in Belgium, the government is wrapped in a court case to prevent women returning from camps in Syria - though it remains open to taking in their children.', 'Russia has repatriated more than 100 children whose parents are imprisoned in Syria and Iraq, returning them to family members.', 'Shamima Begum: How do countries deal with people returning from IS?', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Putin spokesman Peskov's daughter working for EU
['Read more about sharing.', 'Concerns have been raised after it emerged that Elizaveta Peskova, the daughter of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, is interning for a French member of the European Parliament.', "The right-wing MEP Aymeric Chauprade said Ms Peskova's internship with him began in November 2018 and would run until late April.", 'Fellow MEPs have objected to her having access to meetings and databases.', 'But a Parliament spokeswoman said Ms Peskova could only see public files.', 'Who is Peskova?', 'Elizaveta (Liza) Peskova has been studying law in Paris and is well-known socially.', 'She has lived in France for several years and has not shied away from politics. She visited a shipyard two years ago in Crimea after the region was seized and annexed by Russia from Ukraine in 2014.', 'What is a Russian socialite doing at a shipyard?', 'She has more recently posted observations on the French "Gilets Jaunes" (yellow vests) protests, comparing scenes in Paris at night to the computer game "Zombie Apocalypse".', "Her father, Dmitry Peskov, is President Vladimir Putin's long-serving press secretary. Last month, Mr Peskov castigated the EU for imposing sanctions on two Russians blamed for the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the UK.", 'With European Parliament elections in May, there are fears that Russia may seek to influence the polls, as it has been accused of doing in France and elsewhere.', 'What are the concerns?', 'The question for critics is exactly what material Ms Peskova will have access to.', 'As a resident of France, she is entitled to work at the Parliament as an intern and her employer, Mr Chauprade, insists she has access only to details already in the public domain and nothing that is secret, not even the work of the EU-Russia delegation to which he belongs.', "Mr Chauprade, a former international adviser of far-right leader Marine Le Pen, is a well-known supporter of Russia's seizure of Crimea. He is vice-chair of the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy Group led by UK Eurosceptic Nigel Farage.", 'A Parliament spokeswoman confirmed that Ms Peskova could go to any public meeting or delegation meeting as long as it was not restricted or held in private. Interns did not have access to confidential documents but would have access to the email database, she said.', 'The internship with Mr Chauprade was a contractual relationship with the MEP and not with the parliament itself, the spokeswoman said.', 'French Socialist MEP Christine Revault d\'Allonnes-Bonnefoy called the revelation "shocking".', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Ukraine bans its Eurovision entrant over Russia row
['Read more about sharing.', "Ukraine's entrant for the Eurovision Song Contest, Maruv, has been dropped in a row related to tensions between her country and Russia.", "Maruv's song, Siren Song, won a public vote on Saturday, but the singer later fell out with the country's national broadcaster.", 'She was given 24 hours to sign a contract that temporarily barred her from playing in Russia.', "Talks stalled on Monday and the broadcaster revoked Maruv's nomination.", 'The 27-year-old, whose name real name is Anna Korsun, said she was prepared to cancel her next tour of Russia, but that other stipulations in the contract amounted to "censorship".', 'The star, whose song has been watched 6.8 million times on YouTube, added: "I sincerely thank and appreciate everyone who believed in me and voted.', 'In a statement, the state-funded UA:PBC said: "The performer representing Ukraine... also has commitments of becoming a cultural ambassador of Ukraine and delivering not only their music but also expressing the opinion of the Ukrainian society in the world.', 'It added that Eurovision rules demand that the state broadcaster "must ensure the non-political character of the contest" and that it foresaw "a danger of escalation of the split of the Ukrainian society" over Maruv\'s selection.', 'The TV station was backed by politicians, with the Ukrainian Culture Ministry saying only "patriots who are aware of their responsibility" should be allowed to sing at Eurovision.', 'UA:PBC said it would start negotiations with another contestant to represent the country.', 'The 2019 Eurovision Song Contest takes place in Israel in May.', 'Why are relations so bad between Russia and Ukraine?', 'Ukraine gained independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. However, Russia considers a Western-leaning Ukraine a threat to its interests.', "In 2014 Ukraine's pro-Russian leader was overthrown, after large-scale protests against the government's decision to abandon plans to sign an association agreement with the EU.", 'Russia then annexed Crimea, while Russia-backed separatists moved against the Ukrainian state in the east.', 'More than 10,000 people have been killed in the conflict in the east.', "Bilal Hassani: Who is France's Eurovision entry?", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


St Michan's, Dublin: Vandals decapitate 800-year-old crusader
['Read more about sharing.', 'An 800-year-old "crusader" from a crypt in a Dublin church has been decapitated by vandals.', 'Archdeacon David Pierpoint said the crusader\'s head had been "severed from his body and taken away".', 'The discovery was made as a tour guide was preparing to open the church for visitors on Monday afternoon.', 'Archdeacon Pierpoint said he was upset and disappointed that the church had been targeted again by vandals.', "The crypt of St Michan's was vandalised in 1996.", 'Archdeacon Pierpoint told RTÉ the incident was devastating for the parish and community.', 'He said initially he was "quite disgusted" when he saw what had happened, but now he was "just sad".', 'Who were the crusaders?', 'Crusaders fought in a series of religious wars known as the Crusades which were sanctioned by the Church in the medieval period.', 'The most commonly known of the crusades were campaigns in the eastern Mediterranean aimed at recovering the Holy Land from Muslim rule.', 'There were seven major crusades as well as many less significant ones.', 'Tours of the site are being cancelled for the foreseeable future. Last year about 27,000 people visited the church.', 'In a statement, the Church of Ireland said the crypt had been badly damaged and several of the mummies, including the 400-year-old remains of a nun, had been desecrated in the incident.', "The crusader's body was turned over and his head was removed.", 'Archdeacon Pierpoint said a solid steel internal gate was also taken but the immediate concern was securing the vaults.', 'There are also concerns the remains will disintegrate in the open air as the conditions in the crypt keep them preserved.', 'Gardaí (Irish police) are examining CCTV footage from the church.', "The crypt of St Michan's was previously vandalised in 1996, when a group of teenagers broke in and took a number of mummified bodies from their coffins.", 'Following the 1996 break-in, the crypts were closed to the public for a week, while the bodies were recovered.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


May faces revolt ahead of cabinet meeting
['Read more about sharing.', 'Theresa May is facing the threat of a revolt by Remain-supporting ministers who want her to rule out a no-deal Brexit.', 'The PM has just chaired a cabinet meeting on Brexit strategy and will make a statement to MPs at 1230 GMT.', 'Six or more Remain-supporting ministers could quit unless she rules out no-deal in her statement.', "But one of the PM's closest allies has warned pushing back the 29 March exit would not make getting a deal easier.", 'The BBC\'s Nick Watt says the feeling is Mrs May will "lean into" the rebel ministers\' demands and Brexiteers have been told to expect a "very difficult message".', 'Which Brexit amendments will be tabled?', 'What are the ministers demanding?', "Mrs May's Brexit deal was comprehensively rejected by MPs on 15 January and she has said they'll get a second chance to vote on it - possibly with some changes - by 12 March.", 'Mr Harrington, a business minister, told the BBC\'s Victoria Derbyshire that it was "absolutely absurd" that, with 31 days to go before the UK is due to leave, a no-deal exit was still a possibility.', 'Unless Mrs May was willing to provide the necessary reassurances, he said he would vote for Parliament to "take control" of the process by backing an amendment - a legislative tool - being put before the Commons by Labour\'s Yvette Cooper and Conservative Oliver Letwin.', 'If passed, it would give MPs the power to demand a delay to Brexit if a deal cannot be agreed by 13 March.', 'He said he was prepared to rebel and quit, if necessary, insisting this would be the "honourable thing" to do.', 'How have Tories responded?', "Mrs May has long resisted any suggestion that the UK's departure from the EU could be postponed beyond 29 March.", 'Leading Tory Brexiteer Esther McVey, who quit the cabinet in November, said those pressuring the PM to rule out no deal should be making their views known in private.', 'Going public showed they were "losing their nerve" and "bottling" it, she told the BBC.', 'If the UK did leave without a formal agreement on 29 March, she said the UK and EU should enter into what she described as a short "static period" where everything remained the same.', 'This, she said, would give both sides the time and space to discuss how trade would operate, such as what, if any tariffs, would apply to imports and exports.', 'Cabinet Office Minister David Lidington said that calls to avoid a no-deal Brexit by delaying the deadline for leaving the EU did not resolve the issues.', "How has Labour's position changed?", 'Labour has said it will support the Cooper-Letwin amendment, making its chances of success far higher.', 'But leader Jeremy Corbyn also wants to use Wednesday to put his own plan for Brexit - which includes a "comprehensive customs union" with the EU and "close alignment" with the single market - before the Commons.', 'He told his MPs on Monday night that if - as expected - that plan is rejected, the party will formally throw its weight behind another public vote.', 'Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer said that if Labour\'s Brexit proposals did not get through Parliament "we, the Labour Party will either put down ourselves, or support an amendment, in favour of a public vote".', 'That vote, he added, "ought to be on the option, on the one hand, of a credible leave deal and. on the other hand, remain".', "Brexit: What does Corbyn's announcement mean?", "What does Labour's announcement mean?", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


George Pell: Cardinal found guilty of sexual offences in Australia
['Read more about sharing.', 'Cardinal George Pell has been found guilty in Australia of sexual offences against children, making him the highest-ranking Catholic figure to receive such a conviction.', "Pell abused two choir boys in Melbourne's cathedral in 1996, a jury found. He had pleaded not guilty.", "As Vatican treasurer, the 77-year-old Australian was widely seen as the Church's third most powerful official.", 'Pell, due to face sentencing hearings from Wednesday, has lodged an appeal.', 'His trial was heard twice last year because a first jury failed to reach a verdict. A second jury unanimously convicted him of one charge of sexually penetrating a child under 16, and four counts of committing an indecent act on a child under 16.', 'The verdict was handed down in December, but it could not be reported until now for legal reasons.', 'Who is George Pell?', 'Pell was swarmed by media and heckled by onlookers as he left a court on Tuesday.', 'The Vatican later confirmed that Pell was prohibited from public ministry, and had been banned from having contact with minors. He has to abide by these rules until any appeal is over.', 'They added that while the ruling was "painful", and the Church has the "utmost respect" for the Australian authorities, Pell has the right to "defend himself to the last degree".', 'What did the court hear?', 'Pell was archbishop of Melbourne in 1996 when he found the two 13-year-old boys in cathedral rooms following a mass, the County Court of Victoria was told.', 'After telling them they were in trouble for drinking communion wine, Pell forced each boy into indecent acts, prosecutors said. He abused one of the boys again in 1997.', 'The court heard testimony from one of the victims. The other died of a drug overdose in 2014.', "A jury rejected an argument by Pell's lawyer, Robert Richter QC, that the allegations were fantasies contrived by the victims.", 'What has been the reaction?', 'In a statement on Tuesday, Pell\'s surviving victim - who cannot be named - called the case stressful and "not over yet".', 'The man said he had experienced "shame, loneliness, depression and struggle" because of the abuse.', 'How will the Pope tackle abuse in the Catholic Church?', 'The Australian Catholic Bishops Conference said the conviction had "shocked many across Australia and around the world", reiterating its vow to make the Church "a safe place for all".', 'Abuse survivor groups welcomed the verdict.', 'The Vatican said the ruling was "painful", but added that Pell had the right to "defend himself to the last degree".', 'He added that "Cardinal Pell has reaffirmed his innocence and has the right to defend himself to the last degree".', 'What has Pell said?', 'Pell would await the outcome of his appeal, the brief note read.', 'Why was the case kept secret?', "Last May, a judge handed down a legal order which prevented any reporting of Pell's trial and conviction.", 'It was designed to prevent a separate trial - which will no longer go ahead - from being influenced by the first trial.', 'The abandoned trial was to hear unrelated allegations - strongly denied by Pell - that he had indecently assaulted boys in the 1970s. Prosecutors withdrew their case on Tuesday, citing insufficient evidence.', 'The collapse of the second trial led to the lifting of the publication ban.', 'George Pell would sit in the dock with his notebook, listening, writing, but never really betraying any emotion.', "As the court heard vivid descriptions of how in 1996 he had forced himself upon two victims, pushing his archbishop's robes to one side in order to expose himself, he didn't flinch.", 'After two trials, one hung jury and many months of waiting, the results of this long process are now public.', "The pace of justice has felt slow at times, but it has resulted in one of the Church's most prominent figures being held to account.", 'Who is Pell?', 'The Australian cleric rose in prominence as a strong supporter of traditional Catholic values, often taking conservative views and advocating for priestly celibacy.', "He was summoned to Rome in 2014 to clean up the Vatican's finances, and was often described as the Church's third-ranked official.", 'But his career has been dogged first by claims that he covered up child sexual abuse by priests, and then later that he was himself an abuser.', "Pell was demoted from the Pope's inner circle in December. His term as Vatican treasurer expired on Sunday.", 'What is the wider picture?', 'The sexual abuse of children was rarely discussed in public before the 1970s, and it was not until the 1980s that the first cases of molestation by priests came to light, in the US and Canada.', 'But critics say he could do more to combat paedophiles and those who conceal abuse.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Mark Hollis, Talk Talk star, dies at 64
['Read more about sharing.', 'Mark Hollis, lead singer of 1980s band Talk Talk, has died at the age of 64, his former manager has confirmed.', "Talk Talk achieved mainstream success with such hits as It's My Life and Such a Shame, but became increasingly insular and experimental over time.", 'After releasing a solo album in 1998, Hollis left music behind and removed himself from public view.', 'His final release was a solo album, also called Mark Hollis, in 1998.', 'Keith Aspden told the BBC he was "still trying to accept" that his former colleague had died.', 'Talk Talk\'s bassist Paul Webb, aka Rustin Man, said he was "shocked and saddened" at the news.', 'Simon Le Bon from Duran Duran called Hollis "one of music\'s great innovators".', 'Been relistening to Mark Hollis’s dream-soaked Spirit of Eden today. His influence upon music was immense and far reaching. A great presence in the modern era who took his bow far too early but has left us so much still to be moved by.', 'Singer Mari Wilson said Talk Talk\'s third album, The Colour of Spring, "should be held up there with all the greats".', 'And Adele\'s producer Paul Epworth said hearing the band\'s fourth album Spirit of Eden - a solemn, ambient record that was hailed a "masterpiece" despite its lack of commercial appeal - had directly inspired his career.', 'Hearing Spirit Of Eden blew my 18 year old mind to such a degree I set out to try and learn how on  earth they had created this transcendent masterpiece. That search turned into a career.', 'Goodbye Mark Hollis,We owe you so much ,I cant overstate the influence on us three as musicians and us as a band.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Kirsty Maxwell: 'Fresh hope' for balcony fall woman's family
['Read more about sharing.', 'The family of a Scottish woman who fell from a 10th-floor balcony in Spain have spoken of their fresh hope of finding out what led to her death.', 'Kirsty Maxwell, 27, died shortly after entering a Benidorm apartment which was occupied by five men from Nottingham.', 'Spanish police believe Mrs Maxwell, from Livingston, jumped from the balcony after a night out with friends.', 'Her family say expert evidence shows that, in fact, she scaled the barrier then clung to it but lost her grip.', 'Now that evidence from biomechanics expert Mike Brown is to be viewed by a Spanish judge looking into the case.', "Meanwhile, one of the UK's most experienced forensic scientists has agreed to review the circumstances of Mrs Maxwell's death.", 'Mrs Maxwell fell to her death in the early hours of 29 April 2017.', 'She had flown out to the Spanish resort with a group of friends for a hen party the day before.', 'One of the men, Joseph Graham, was arrested on suspicion of homicide but later released without charge.', 'He issued a statement saying he was innocent of any wrongdoing and described Mrs Maxwell\'s death as a "tragic accident".', 'They returned to Spain voluntarily and exercised their legal right to answer only questions put by their lawyer.', "Now he has been joined on the family's team by forensic scientist Prof Jim Fraser, who worked on the investigation into the serial killer Robert Black and the murders of Damilola Taylor and Rachel Nickell.", "The family's Spanish lawyer Lorena Soler Bernabeu has also flown to Scotland to meet them and assure them that the investigation in Benidorm is ongoing.", 'Mr Curry said: "We\'re coming up for two years this April and we never thought we would be here. We thought this would be done and dusted.', 'He added: "We know we\'ve got a goal and the goal is to find out some truth and answers.', 'Who was Kirsty Maxwell?', 'Kirsty Maxwell was a 27-year-old woman from Livingston, West Lothian.', 'She married her husband Adam in September 2016, having known him for 10 years. They were in the process of buying a new home and had planned to start a family.', 'How did Kirsty Maxwell die?', 'Mrs Maxwell went to Benidorm in Spain for a hen do with a group of friends on 28 April 2017.', 'The women were staying at My Pretty Payma Apartments, also known as Apartmentos Payma.', 'They went out for food and drinks on their first night away, and Mrs Maxwell and two friends returned to the apartments in the early hours of 29 April. They were pictured on CCTV waiting for lifts at 05:35.', 'Mrs Maxwell went to sleep and one of her friends filmed her snoring in their apartment on the ninth floor at 06:50.', 'An hour later, at 07:51, Mrs Maxwell fell to her death from the balcony of apartment 10E, on the tenth floor, which was occupied by five men from Nottingham.', "Mrs Maxwell's family have confirmed that she had no history of sleepwalking. They want to know how she ended up in the room, and what happened in the room.", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Put May's Brexit deal to a public vote if MPs back it - Labour
['Read more about sharing.', "If Theresa May's Brexit deal gets through Parliament, Labour wants it to be put to a referendum - with remaining in the EU as the other option.", "Labour's shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer confirmed the party's new policy in an interview with BBC Radio 4's Today programme.", 'He said Labour would attempt to get its own Brexit proposals through Parliament on Wednesday.', 'But if that failed then the party would back another referendum, he added.', "Kuenssberg: What does Labour's change of policy mean?", 'Which Brexit amendments will be tabled?', 'Sir Keir rejected claims from anonymous Labour sources who had briefed that Shadow Foreign Secretary Emily Thornberry "misspoke" when she set out the party\'s position on the referendum.', 'Asked if advisers to Mr Corbyn did not agree with the position, Sir Keir said he "didn\'t know who said what" but Ms Thornberry had been "setting out what the position is we agreed as the Labour Party".', 'Labour will seek backing for its own Brexit proposals, which include a "comprehensive customs union" with the EU and "close alignment" with the single market in a Commons vote on Wednesday.', 'At the same time, 30 or more Labour MPs are thought to be against another EU referendum, making it potentially difficult for that to get a Commons majority too.', 'If Labour did not get MPs to back its own Brexit proposals on Wednesday, Sir Keir said: "We, the Labour Party will either put down ourselves, or support an amendment, in favour of a public vote".', "The precise wording of the question on the ballot paper would have to be decided by Parliament, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.", 'But he said the referendum choice should be between a "credible leave deal", that "has the confidence of Parliament", and staying in the EU, which he would support.', 'Mr Corbyn had resisted pressure from Remain-supporters in his own party to get behind another referendum, insisting he preferred to force a general election, even after he failed in a bid to unseat the PM in a confidence vote last month.', 'But on Monday, Mr Corbyn announced a change of heart, telling his MPs: "One way or another, we will do everything in our power to prevent no deal and oppose a damaging Tory Brexit based on Theresa May\'s overwhelmingly rejected deal.', 'Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell said the prime minister had pushed MPs "so near the edge" that Labour had little room for manoeuvre.', 'If the party could not get its Brexit proposals through Parliament, then "we have to fall back on going back to people - not what we wanted but that\'s the only last sanction we\'ve got," he told reporters on Tuesday morning.', 'He said Labour had abided by its 2017 election manifesto to respect the referendum result, but that the party had also agreed at its party conference in September conference to block "no deal" or a "reckless deal".', 'Eight Labour MPs quit the party last week, partly in protest at its refusal to get behind another referendum.', 'Chuka Umunna, a leading member of the new Independent Group of MPs, said Labour\'s new stance was "better late than never".', 'The UK voted to leave the EU in a referendum in June 2016, but the withdrawal deal Mrs May negotiated with the EU has to be agreed by MPs - and it suffered a huge defeat by them last month.', 'Mrs May has ruled out a "meaningful vote" on her Brexit deal this week - saying one would be held by 12 March - but she is giving MPs the chance on Wednesday to have their say on how the next steps for Brexit.', "Does Labour's policy shift make another referendum more likely?", "I asked the Labour leader's spokesman that very question twice last night.", 'He said a lot of things in his answers, but he didn\'t say "yes".', 'And this is why.', 'First, it\'s not yet clear what form this commitment to a referendum will take. What would constitute a "credible leave option"?', 'Sir Keir Starmer and Emily Thornberry are clear -  if Theresa May\'s deal passes through Parliament, then that is the "leave option" and it should be put to a referendum.', 'Labour, under these circumstances, would campaign to Remain.', 'But sources close to the Labour leader say a "credible leave option" could also be the party\'s plan for a customs union - and in a subsequent "public vote" Labour MPs would be expected to back this Brexit plan over Remain.', 'Any definitive decision will be taken further down the line, close to the "meaningful vote" on Mrs May\'s deal.', 'Second, there is a question over whether a referendum in any form would get through Parliament.', "Don't forget, not only Jeremy Corbyn himself but some of his shadow cabinet have never been keen on the idea.", 'Estimates of how many Labour MPs from Leave-voting areas would rebel against a "public vote" vary.', "But I am told the working assumption in the  Labour leader's office is that - as things stand - there would be enough to defeat it.", 'Support for a referendum could grow if 29 March approaches and there is still no deal with the EU.', "That's why the Labour policy shift is seen as important by People's Vote campaigners.", "But just because the Labour leadership are now formally moving to back the referendum option doesn't mean it will actually happen.", 'Brexit: Which amendments will be tabled this week?', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Moldova election marred by allegations of vote-buying
['Read more about sharing.', 'Monitors have condemned what they say are "strong indications of vote-buying" in Moldova\'s general poll on Sunday.', 'The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) also reported "pressure on public employees" and "misuse of state resources".', 'Moldovan politics include both pro-Russia and pro-EU parties which frequently clash with one another.', 'Both sides accused the ruling Democratic party of electoral fraud - but results showed no clear winner.', "Moldova, a former Soviet republic, lies between the EU and Ukraine and is one of Europe's poorest countries.", 'Much of the controversy is linked to reports that voters in the breakaway Trans-Dniester region - where there are no polling stations - were bussed to other areas to cast their vote.', 'Parties have accused one another of bribing voters from the region, local media say.', "With almost all votes counted, the country's electoral committee said the pro-Russia Socialist Party, allied to Moldovan President Igor Dodon, received the most votes at 31%. But the Acum (26%) and Democratic parties (24%), both pro-EU, came in second and third.", 'The parties will now enter negotiations to form a government.', 'Despite its criticisms, the OSCE said the elections had been competitive and that fundamental rights "were generally respected".', 'Yet the elections took place under a controversial new voting system which the OSCE said was created "without inclusive public debate and consultation".', 'Under the new system, the 101 seats in the parliament were split - 50 in a party list system and 51 in single-seat constituencies.', 'The OSCE said the new system caused "difficulties and confusion", but that most aspects of the election were still handled transparently and professionally.', 'But it criticised a campaign in which "control and ownership of the media by political actors limited the range of viewpoints presented to voters".', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Pippi Longstocking parrot actor dies
['By News from Elsewhere...', 'Read more about sharing.', "Douglas the parrot, who appeared in a popular children's film about the adventures of Pippi Longstocking, has died at the age of 51.", 'Matthias Reinschmidt, the director of Karlsruhe Zoo in Germany, said Douglas had died of old age, while resting on his arm.', 'After his moment in the limelight, Douglas went on to settle in an enclosure at the Folk Park in Malmö, but peace was to elude him in Sweden.', 'Back in 2003, the authorities decided that he would have to be put down, for lack of the proper paperwork to show that he had been imported legally from Brazil.', 'As luck would have it, a former owner was able to prove that Douglas was a legal immigrant, and he lived to fly another day.', 'But the Swedish Board of Agriculture later ruled that the Malmö aviary was too small, and it looked like Douglas might face death once again before dozens of zoos offered him a new home.', 'Douglas is fondly remembered by all the zoo staff who cared for him.', "Douglas, the parrot star of a Pippi Longstocking children's film, has died.", 'Answering life’s questions through daily features, quizzes and opinions.', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Catalonia's ex-president Carles Puigdemont on life 'on the run'
['Carles Puigdemont, the ex-president of the Spanish region of Catalonia, on life in self-imposed exile.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Catalan ex-leader Carles Puigdemont emerges from jail in Germany to urge Madrid to start independence talks.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Catalan separatists are still defiant, a year after the failed independence referendum.', 'Read more about sharing.', "A year ago an illegal referendum took place in Spain's Catalonia region - what was achieved?", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Deposed Catalonian president Carles Puigdemont is in self-imposed exile in Brussels.', 'Read more about sharing.', "Carles Puigdemont, the ex-president of the Spanish region of Catalonia, spoke to the BBC's Europe reporter Gavin Lee about life in self-imposed exile in Belgium.", 'The interview took place as 12 pre-independence politicians face trials in Madrid and some could face up to 25 years in prison, if found guilty.', 'Mr Puigdemont has been on the run since his then-government led a failed attempt to secede from Spain after a controversial self-determination referendum.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Loading...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Rocky ride for plane passengers over Spain
['A rocky ride for a plane travelling from London as winds prevented it from landing.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'A British Airways plane faced difficulties when attempting to land at Heathrow Airport.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'A Jet2 plane has aborted a landing due to wind at Leeds Bradford Airport and diverted to Manchester.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Planes were affected by strong winds and heavy snow as weather caused disruption across the region.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Storm Deirdre has brought strong winds to the UK this weekend, resulting in planes having to abort landings.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'A British Airways plane travelling from London was unable to land at Gibraltar International Airport due to strong winds which caused the plane to sway violently.', 'The pilot decided to redirect the plane to Malaga instead.', 'Passenger Eli Hassett told the BBC about his experience on the diverted Gibraltar flight and one eyewitness caught the plane rocking violently in the air.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Loading...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Gladiator school: 'I love to hit people'
["The 21st Century gladiatrix who's bringing ancient Rome back to life.", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Journey inside the world of medieval combat with a longsword world champion.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Jason Kingsley makes video games for a living, but he strives to live his life according to the values of a medieval knight.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Jouster Tom Kilroy is keeping medieval combat alive with his very own knight school.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Deputy head teacher Sarah Hay is the world number one woman jouster.', 'Read more about sharing.', "It's got ramparts, stonework and there's even a set of stocks outside.", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Are you fit enough to be in the army?', "The army's new tests are based on skills required in close combat roles.", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Just a mile from the Colosseum in Rome, the world’s first modern gladiator school offers training to give you the mental and physical skills necessary for mock life-or-death combat.', 'In a reproduction of the castrum - a Roman military defence camp - students can learn everything from proper shield-wielding to bodily stances, supplemented with lectures on the history of gladiators and their place in ancient society.', 'Gladiatrix and trainer, Flamma told BBC News why hand-to-hand combat in an arena is a feeling money can’t buy.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Loading...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


'I think it could get worse' - US spy suspect
['Paul Whelan, a former US marine accused of spying in Russia, has spoken to the BBC for the first time since his arrest.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Two men named as suspects in the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in the UK say they were just tourists.', 'Read more about sharing.', "BBC Newsnight's Mark Urban recounts the movements of the Salisbury poisoning suspects.", 'Read more about sharing.', "A tiny Russian village has been revealed as Salisbury suspect's former home.", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Poisoned ex-spy: Why does UK think it was Russia?', "The BBC's Gordon Corera considers the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury.", 'Read more about sharing.', 'Britain has admitted for the first time that it was caught spying when Russia exposed its use of a fake rock to conceal electronic equipment.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'An inquest into the death of the former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko will examine claims that the Russian government was involved in his death.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'A former US marine accused of spying in Russia has told the BBC\'s Sarah Rainsford he is "holding up well" after two months in custody but said he couldn’t comment publicly on the charge against him for fear of making his situation worse.', 'Paul Whelan, who also has British, Irish and Canadian citizenship, spoke while in a Moscow courtroom, where he was appearing for a hearing on extending his arrest.', 'He was detained in late December in Moscow after he was handed a flash drive which the FSB says contained state secrets.', 'Mr Whelan’s lawyer says he is innocent.', 'His detention in custody has now been extended until late May.', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Loading...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Greece's invisible minority - the Macedonian Slavs
['Read more about sharing.', 'By ratifying an agreement with the newly renamed Republic of North Macedonia, Greece has implicitly recognised the existence of a Macedonian language and ethnicity. And yet it has denied the existence of its own Macedonian minority for decades, says Maria Margaronis. Will something now change?', 'Mr Fokas, 92, stands straight as a spear in his tan leather brogues and cream blazer, barely leaning on the ebony and ivory cane brought from Romania by his grandfather a century ago. His mind and his memory are as sharp as his outfit.', "A retired lawyer, Mr Fokas speaks impeccable formal Greek with a distinctive lilt: his mother tongue is Macedonian, a Slavic language related to Bulgarian and spoken in this part of the Balkans for centuries. At his son's modern house in a village in northern Greece, he takes me through the painful history of Greece's unrecognised Slavic-speaking minority.", 'Mr Fokas takes care to emphasise from the start that he is both an ethnic Macedonian and a Greek patriot. He has good reason to underline his loyalty: for almost a century, ethnic Macedonians in Greece have been objects of suspicion and, at times, persecution, even as their presence has been denied by almost everyone.', 'That erasure was one reason for Greece\'s long-running dispute with the former Yugoslav republic now officially called the Republic of North Macedonia. The dispute was finally resolved last month by a vote in the Greek parliament ratifying (by a majority of just seven) an agreement made last June by the countries\' two prime ministers. When the Greek Prime Minster, Alexis Tsipras, referred during the parliamentary debate to the existence of "Slavomacedonians" in Greece - at the time of World War Two - he was breaking a long-standing taboo.', 'The use of the name "Macedonia" by the neighbouring nation state implicitly acknowledges that Macedonians are a people in their own right, and opens the door to hard questions about the history of Greece\'s own Macedonian minority.', 'When Mr Fokas was born, the northern Greek region of Macedonia had only recently been annexed by the Greek state. Until 1913 it was part of the Ottoman Empire, with Greece, Bulgaria and Serbia all wooing its Slavic-speaking inhabitants as a means to claiming the territory. It was partly in reaction to those competing forces that a distinctive Slav Macedonian identity emerged in the late 19th and early 20th Century. As Mr Fokas\'s uncle used to say, the family was "neither Serb, nor Greek, nor Bulgarian, but Macedonian Orthodox".', 'In the end, the Slav Macedonians found themselves divided between those three new states. In Greece, some were expelled; those who remained were pushed to assimilate. All villages and towns with non-Greek names were given new ones, chosen by a committee of scholars in the late 1920s, though almost a century later some "locals" still use the old ones.', 'In 1936, when Mr Fokas was nine years old, the Greek dictator Ioannis Metaxas (an admirer of Mussolini) banned the Macedonian language, and forced Macedonian-speakers to change their names to Greek ones.', 'Mr Fokas remembers policemen eavesdropping on mourners at funerals and listening at windows to catch anyone speaking or singing in the forbidden tongue. There were lawsuits, threats and beatings.', "Women - who often spoke no Greek - would cover their mouths with their headscarves to muffle their speech, but Mr Fokas's mother was arrested and fined 250 drachmas, a big sum back then.", 'When the Communists were finally defeated, severe reprisals followed for anyone associated with the resistance or the left.', "Mr Fokas was a student in Thessaloniki then - but he too was arrested and spent three years on the prison island of Makronisos, not because of anything he'd done but because his mother had helped her brother-in-law escape through the skylight of a cafe where he was being held.", "Macedonia: What's in a Name?", 'Tens of thousands of fighters with the Democratic Army, about half of them Slavic-speakers, went into exile in Eastern bloc countries during and after the civil war. About 20,000 children were taken across the border by the Communists, whether for their protection or as reserve troops for a future counter-attack.', 'Many Slavic-speaking civilians also went north for safety. Entire villages were left empty, like the old settlement of Krystallopigi (Smrdes in Macedonian) near the Albanian border, where only the imposing church of St George stands witness to a population that once numbered more than 1,500 souls.', 'In 1982, more than 30 years after the conflict\'s end, Greece\'s socialist government issued a decree allowing civil war refugees to return - but only those who were "of Greek ethnicity". Ethnic Macedonians from Greece remained shut out of their country, their villages and their land; families separated by the war were never reunited.', "It's impossible accurately to calculate the number of Slavic-speakers or descendants of ethnic Macedonians in Greece. Historian Leonidas Embiricos estimates that more than 100,000 still live in the Greek region of Macedonia, though only 10,000 to 20,000 would identify openly as members of a minority - and many others are proud Greek nationalists.", 'The Macedonian language hasn\'t officially been banned in Greece for decades, but the fear still lingers. A middle-aged man I met in a village near the reed beds of Lake Prespa, where the agreement between Greece and the North Macedonian republic was first signed last June, explained that this fear is passed down through the generations. "My parents didn\'t speak the language at home in case I picked it up and spoke it in public. To protect me. We don\'t even remember why we\'re afraid any more," he said. Slowly the language is dying. Years of repression pushed it indoors; assimilation is finishing the job.', "And yet speaking or singing in Macedonian can still be cause for harassment. Mr. Fokas' son is a musician; he plays the haunting Macedonian flute for us as his own small son looks on. He and a group of friends used to host an international music festival in the village square, with bands from as far away as Brazil, Mexico and Russia.", "At the last minute, the festival was moved to a field outside the village, among the reeds and marshes, without proper facilities - which, Mr Fokas's son points out, only made Greece look bad.", "The ratification of Greece's agreement with the Republic of North Macedonia - and its implicit recognition of a Macedonian language and ethnicity - is a major political breakthrough which should help to alleviate such fears. But the process has also sparked new waves of anger and anxiety, with large, sometimes violent protests opposing the agreement, supported by parts of the Orthodox church.", "An election is due before the end of the year. Greece's right-wing opposition has been quick to capitalise on nationalist sentiments, accusing the Syriza government of treason and betrayal. For Greece's Slavic-speakers, who have long sought nothing more than the right to cultural expression, the time to emerge from the shadows may not quite yet have arrived.", 'It\'s more than 25 years since Yugoslavia broke into pieces and the republic of Macedonia came into being. Until a few weeks ago, the new country lacked an official, internationally agreed name, because of Greece\'s objections to the name "Macedonia". And for nearly all that time one man was working to solve the problem.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Brexit: What would it mean for UK pensioners living in Europe?
['Brexit: What would it mean for UK pensioners living in Europe?', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Which European countries have the most UK pension claimants?', 'If you are entitled to a UK state pension, you can claim it wherever you live in the world.', 'If you live in the UK, your state pension is uprated every year in line with the triple lock, which means it rises by whichever is highest of average earnings, inflation or 2.5%.', 'That is also the case if you live in the 27 other EU countries as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.', "If Theresa May's withdrawal agreement goes through, uprating will continue in those countries.", 'In later years, it will only uprate pensions if it has a reciprocal arrangement either with the whole of the EU or with each of the individual countries so that their state pensioners living in the UK also receive annual upratings.', 'This is not a problem for people claiming the UK state pension in the Republic of Ireland and Switzerland, who will benefit from uprating whether or not there is a deal, the latter as a result of the deal already done with the Swiss.', 'Will Britons living in the EU still be able to get healthcare after Brexit?', 'What will happen to mobile roaming charges after Brexit?', 'It is that sort of deal that would have to be done with European countries.', 'There are also places where lots of people claim UK state pensions but do not benefit from uprating such as Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa.', 'The withdrawal agreement is supposed to keep that co-ordination going, but if the UK leaves the EU with no deal then it will not be possible without further negotiations.', 'Similarly, in order to claim the UK state pension at the moment, you have to have made National Insurance contributions for a minimum of 10 years.', 'But, if you have worked in the UK for seven years, for example, and another European country for at least three years, then you can still claim a UK state pension - your work in another European country gets you over the line.', 'You would only be paid based on your seven years of eligibility, but you would be able to claim it, which you would not otherwise have been able to do.', 'Again, under the withdrawal agreement this would continue to be the case, but if the UK leaves with no deal then further negotiations would be needed.', 'Brexit: Will Britons living in the EU still get healthcare?', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Tymoshenko v Tymoshenko: Funny business at the polls
['Read more about sharing.', "Two of the candidates in next month's Ukrainian presidential election have the same name - Tymoshenko. And the same initials. And even though the frontrunner to become the next president is a comedian, this is no joke - as the BBC's Jonah Fisher in Kiev explains.", "Two-and-a-half million Ukrainian hryvna is a lot of money. It converts to $92,000 or £70,000. With that amount of money you could buy a decent apartment here in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev. If you're willing to travel cross country, there are places where you could pretty much own a village.", "Two-and-a-half million hryvna also gets you a spot on the ballot paper for Ukraine's presidential election next month.", "That's if you meet the other requirements, of course: being over 35, holding Ukrainian citizenship, speaking Ukrainian and having lived here for the last 10 years.", "Having cleared those hurdles, 44 candidates have stumped up the cash and put their names forward. Ukraine's incumbent president, Petro Poroshenko, is among them, though he's facing an almighty struggle just to make it to the second round.", "If you come out as one of the top two finalists, you get your money back. If not, well, there's your hryvnas gone.", "Which is why one of the candidate's financial declarations rather caught my eye. A family income of just about $10,000 a year, with no additional bank accounts or cash savings.", "When I visit his apartment, it certainly doesn't look like anything special. As I remove my shoes, I'm greeted with a big smile and a handshake by Yuriy Tymoshenko.", "Once we're seated round his dining room table, I cut to the chase.", "The widespread suspicion is that Yuriy is what's known as a clone candidate, planted maliciously to steal votes from confused people who really want to vote for the former prime minister, Yulia Tymoshenko. Yes, the woman with the curled blonde plait.", "Yuriy's not for turning.", 'Now that 44 people have paid for their places on what will be a very long ballot paper, some of the other candidacies are just as perplexing.', "It's hard to see who's going to be voting for Roman Nasirov, the former head of the state fiscal service, currently standing trial for corruption. Or for Volodymyr Petrov, who's under house arrest, accused of creating a sex scandal on Facebook… or indeed for Igor Shevchenko, whose main claim to fame is taking too many blue bobble hats from a stall at Davos. I'm not joking. These men are never getting their money back.", "And then there's a comedian - a real one - Volodymyr Zelenskiy. He plays the President on a hit Ukrainian TV show called Servant of the People. Mr Zelenskiy's entire campaign pushes the idea that's he's very similar to the principled, ethical character people have watched in the series.", 'But so far Mr Zelenskiy has very few policy ideas of his own, so when I meet him at his production house, we chat about British comedy.', 'Monty Python is his favourite he tells me, before lamenting that Ukrainian audiences are "more into Benny-Hill-type humour". They tend to prefer familiar slapstick to surreal innovation.', "With a month to go, this election does have a rather farcical feel to it. It's strange, especially when Ukraine has serious economic problems and is still fighting a war against Russian-backed forces in the east.", 'Leading the polls at the moment is the Monty Python fan, Mr Zelenskiy, with Yulia Tymoshenko and current president Petro Poroshenko scrapping it out just behind.', "And what about Yuriy? Well he's currently well down the field, in 18th place.", 'John Corcoran grew up in New Mexico in the US during the 1940s and 50s. One of six siblings, he graduated from high school, went on to university, and became a teacher in the 1960s - a job he held for 17 years. But, as he explains here, he hid an extraordinary secret.', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Snow patrol drones save skiers from icy death
['Read more about sharing.', 'Being buried alive is a scenario most of us thankfully only experience in nightmares.', "But for off-piste skiing fans, lured by the thrill of carving their own tracks through fresh powder snow, it's an ever-present risk.", 'More than 150 people - mostly skiers, snowboarders and snowmobilers - are killed in avalanches every year, according to National Geographic statistics.', 'Drone manufacturers claim UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) could slash the toll by finding victims faster, and allowing ski patrollers to clear snow on high-risk slopes using explosives - without endangering themselves.', 'Some mountain rescue services claim drones reduce their search times by up to 50%, because a drone can scan a large avalanche site more quickly than a person on foot.', 'And when it comes to avalanches, time is of the essence.', 'More than 90% of people buried by avalanches survive if dug out within 15 minutes. But after 45 minutes, the odds of survival drop to about 20%.', 'Suffocation is the main cause of death.', 'For someone in this situation, the best hope of rescue is currently an avalanche transceiver. Worn under your jacket, these hand-sized radio devices emit a low-power pulsed signal when activated.', 'They can also be switched to receive mode, allowing those skiing with avalanche victims to pinpoint the area where the signal is strongest, then use probes and shovels to dig them out.', 'The Czech Mountain Rescue Service (MRS) uses Robodrone Kingfisher drones fitted with cameras and its own avalanche transceiver detection system to locate buried skiers.', "But finding someone's exact location on difficult terrain often takes too long. New triple-antenna transceivers can help boost the signal, but what do you do about people who aren't wearing any kind of transceiver?", 'But finding people is one thing, digging them out is another. And no drones can yet do the digging.', 'This is where dogs, fellow skiers and rescue teams are needed.', 'Other technologies come in.', 'Some skiwear is now fitted with so-called Recco reflectors that bounce back a directional signal to mountain rescue teams equipped with a Recco detector.', 'Mr Georges believes drones could also become indispensible for mountain guides heading off the beaten track.', "Could hackers 'brainjack' your memories in future?", 'Would you be happy to see your doctor online?', 'Do money apps make us better or worse with our finances?', 'Many off-piste skiers also wear backpacks that incorporate avalanche airbags, designed to inflate when the wearer pulls a cord, and keep them on the surface of the snow.', "The latest innovations in this field include German airbag manufacturer ABS's wireless partner activation system, that triggers all the bags in a group when one cord is pulled.", 'ABS chief executive Dr Stefan Mohr says the technology can "remotely trigger partner airbags thanks to integrated wireless group activation, actively preventing the burial of more than one person".', 'And avalanche specialist Pieps has introduced an airbag that automatically deflates three minutes after being triggered so "the pressure on the buried person is reduced and a big air pocket is created".', 'But the essence of avalanche survival remains freeing those trapped as quickly as possible, Mr Schniewind says.', 'Setting off controlled avalanches to prevent deadly slides happening in the first place is one of the main responsibilities of patrol teams working in ski resorts.', 'It can be dangerous work. Just last month, two ski patrollers were killed in the French resort of Morillon when an explosive detonated before they could move away.', 'So if drones could do this work, more lives might be saved.', 'Mountain Drones, a Colorado-based start-up, has developed a prototype drone capable of carrying the charges used to trigger controlled avalanches, allowing humans to keep a safe distance away from the explosions.', "But the firm has hit a regulatory brick wall owing to the US government's ban on drones carrying explosives.", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Is equal pay actually possible?
['Is equal pay actually possible?', 'Read more about sharing.', 'Equal pay - paying men and women the same for jobs of equal value - has been a legal requirement in Iceland, the UK and many other countries for decades.', 'While other countries focus on gender pay, Iceland has put the onus on employers to show they follow the existing laws around equal pay.', 'Could other places benefit from its new workplace strategy?', 'The UK has made it compulsory for large companies to publish the difference in what they pay men and women.', 'This is called the gender pay gap - the average hourly percentage gap between the salaries received by men and women.', 'Gender pay gaps can be seen in almost every country in the world.', "At 1.5%, Romania's gap was the smallest, while South Korea's 34.6% gap was the widest.", 'The widespread nature of the gender pay gap suggests workplace equality has not yet been achieved.', 'Want to find out the gender pay gap where you work? Try the calculator below.', 'All British companies with 250 or more employees have to report their gender pay gaps. Last year 78% disclosed that they paid men more than they paid women.', 'How big is the pay gap at...?', 'Would the Icelandic approach work?', 'Would the Icelandic approach - proactively enforcing existing equal pay laws - prove more effective?', 'All large firms must prove they meet an equal pay standard agreed by the government, employers and unions, that prove pay decisions are not influenced by the worker\'s "social characteristics", notably their gender.', 'Employers are allowed to pay salaries based on performance, but only if they can demonstrate they are paying equal value for equal work.', 'However, focusing on "equal pay for equal work" does not address all the issues contributing to the gender pay gap at individual companies, which often reflects a concentration of men in well-paid senior roles.', "What the processes do is direct employers' attention to why they pay people what they do and what each job entails.", 'What are other countries doing?', 'Why do we still see pay discrepancies?', 'Although we have equal pay and other anti-discrimination laws, these have not necessarily been fully implemented.', "One problem is that it is usually up to an employee - or their union - to challenge companies' pay practices. This could be both expensive and risky for an individual to attempt.", 'Secondly, equal pay laws only apply to jobs within an individual company or organisation, which is not particularly helpful in workplaces where most employees are female.', 'This means that in practice salaries can vary quite a lot from person to person, and are not always directly linked to the value of work performed.', 'Even if equal pay laws were more effectively enforced, wider problems may still persist.', 'All of this means workplace equality is unlikely to be achieved by a single measure.', "But that does not mean to say these policies won't have any positive effects, or that we shouldn't try to bring about change.", 'Gender pay gap reporting may do more to shine a light on pay practices.', "The public attention it attracts may prompt firms to take action to improve women's pay and career progression to boost their reputation, but that is not guaranteed.", 'Salary reporting is a good first step, but the UK could make this approach more effective by requiring companies to go beyond simply reporting their gender pay gap by adopting practices likely to reduce it.', "While it is early days for Iceland's equal pay strategy, early signs suggest that forcing companies to prove they compensate employees fairly may be more effective than transparency without any consequences.", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


BMW and Daimler invest €1bn in new car venture
['Read more about sharing.', 'BMW and Daimler have unveiled a joint venture covering new-generation services such as driverless vehicles, ride-hailing, and pay-per-use cars.', 'Normally fierce rivals, the firms are investing €1bn (£880m) in the project, which will also help drivers find parking and electric charge points.', 'It comes as carmakers face competition from mobility services providers such as Uber and other technology firms.', 'The two German firms said they were open to buying tech start-ups.', "Established ride-hailing firms have been expanding. China's Didi Chuxing aims to expand its business in Latin America and Uber is growing rapidly in the US market.", 'Both companies have been working to develop autonomous car technology. Many analysts have argued that to survive against the tech giants, traditional car manufacturers must develop services based on usage rather than sales.', "Daimler's Car2Go car-sharing brand will be combined with BMW's DriveNow, ParkNow and ChargeNow businesses, with both carmakers holding a 50% stake in the venture.", 'Share Now: for car-sharing.', "The car industry is changing rapidly. BMW and Daimler have concluded that for them, there's safety in numbers.", 'As cities become more congested, and efforts to contain pollution are stepped up, their inhabitants are going to come under more pressure to give up their cars for alternative forms of transport. Owning your own set of wheels in town may one day be seen as terribly 20th Century.', "At the same time technology is developing at a breakneck pace. As both Daimler and BMW have admitted, it's likely that cars in cities will eventually be shared-use electric machines that drive themselves and can be summoned at the touch of a smartphone.", 'Old-fashioned carmakers that fail to adapt risk being driven out of business - as car sales fall, and the tech industry upstarts move in.', 'The deal between the big German brands should help them cement their stake in this brave new world where car companies give way to "mobility providers".', "The amount of shared investment isn't huge - a mere €1bn, and the initial focus on fairly mundane offerings such as car sharing, ride hailing and parking.", 'But the big question is, where it could lead?', 'Are the days of the private car really over?', "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Russia charges US investor with fraud in high-profile case
['Read more about sharing.', 'Russian investigators have charged US investor Michael Calvey with large-scale fraud, in a case that has further strained ties between the two nations.', 'Mr Calvey, the founder of the Baring Vostok investment fund, is suspected of embezzling 2.5bn roubles ($38m; £29m) from a Russian bank, Vostochny.', 'Mr Calvey, who was held last week with five other suspects, denies this.', 'The US embassy in Moscow said Russia was denying US diplomats access to Mr Calvey, seven days after his arrest.', 'Mr Calvey says that charges against him are being used as an instrument in a dispute among shareholders of Vostochny.', "In an unusual move, Russia's business ombudsman Boris Titov has questioned the legality of Mr Calvey's arrest.", 'Meanwhile, several prominent Russian businessmen have warned that the high-profile case could raise concerns among foreign investors about the business climate in Russia.', 'On Thursday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov admitted that Mr Calvey\'s case was "at the centre of rather lively political discussions".', "Relations between the US and Russia have been strained over a number of issues, including a major arms control treaty and Russia's occupation of Ukraine's Crimea peninsula in 2014.", "If Theresa May can't get her deal through Parliament, MPs will vote on ruling out no-deal or delaying Brexit.", "What next for 2019's Oscar winners?", 'Meet the stars being put through their paces...', 'Copyright © 2019 BBC.', 'The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.', 'Read about our approach to external linking.']


Well Family: A New Name and New Home for Motherlode
['Loading...', 'When The New York Times started Motherlode in 2008, the name was a play on words that marked our entry into the world of parenting blogs. But like many readers, I questioned the name of a parenting report that, by definition, seemed to exclude half of all parents.', 'Over the past few years, our vision of what it means to be a family has changed, and it has\xa0also become clear that the name Motherlode is more than a little at odds with the larger conversation, which includes mothers, fathers, step parents, grandparents, children, siblings, friends, pets and every possible variation on family.', 'As a result, The Times is introducing Well Family, a new online report with expanded coverage of parenting, childhood health and relationships to help every family live well. While the name “Motherlode” will be retired, the Motherlode team will be moving to Well, where you’ll still find my weekly columns, as well as regular contributions from your favorite Motherlode writers, including the child psychologist and best-selling author\xa0Lisa Damour, The Times’s Your Money columnist Ron Lieber and the educator Jessica Lahey.', 'Well Family will also offer some new features, including The Checkup, a new weekly column on healthy parenting by the pediatrician Dr. Perri Klass.', 'And each Sunday, look for Ties, a new series of essays on the diverse and often complicated connections that make up the modern family. Writers will include the New York Times opinion writer Frank Bruni, the novelist Ann Patchett, the autism memoirist John Elder Robison, the linguist Deborah Tannen and other contributors who will offer their unique takes on family issues.', 'And as always, you’ll still find me in the comments, sharing the same conversations about family we’ve always had. The definition of family is continually expanding, and so are we.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Whether Our Foster Child Stays or Goes, He Is Loved
['Loading...', 'I turn to see my 4-year-old foster son staring at our house through the back window of my car. We’ve just returned from dropping my 5-year-old biological son, Ryan, off at school, and I’m not surprised he’s asking me again now. It is a conversation we have several times a week and almost always when it is just the two of us, alone together.', 'For more than 10 months, my husband, Mike, and I have been foster parents to this little boy, whom I’ve been calling BlueJay in this diary to protect his privacy. For most of those months, it seemed very possible that he and his brothers, who do not live in our home, would be reunited with their biological parents. His parents haven’t made enough progress toward reunification, though. As their time runs out, it seems the most likely scenario is that he will be moved to live with relatives who live several hours away.', 'It could happen in a matter of weeks or even days. In our experience as a new foster family, good information can be hard to come by, so we simply wait for the next court hearing. Mike and I have become used to the waiting. We have learned how to manage — or at least compartmentalize — our anxiety about the future’s uncertainty. But as our foster son gets older, his anxiety over the uncertainty only grows.', 'His questions have become more direct in recent weeks. Generalized reassurances aren’t cutting it for him anymore. He’s 4 years old, he is perceptive, and he wants answers.', 'We have struggled with how much to tell him. A year ago, I never would have imagined I’d be having these kinds of conversations with a child so young. But after a persistent and specific line of questioning about whether we would let him stay with us forever or if we would make him leave, we knew he needed — he deserved — some deeper answers. He needed to know about the judge.', 'He’s right. It is his house as much as it is mine or Mike’s or Ryan’s. He has a favorite spot on the couch and a usual spot at the dining room table. He has his own bedroom, his own toys and games, his own set of books, his own nightlight. He has stomped up the stairs of this home in frustration, danced across the dining room floor and run down the hallway more times than any of us could count.', 'As he gets older and is able to process his memories at a higher level, he becomes more and more conscious that a “home” isn’t always permanent.', 'I want him to know we would never pack him up simply because he threw a really big tantrum or broke something out of anger or spoke too disrespectfully. This is a fear of his that is rooted in his experience. And yet, it is possible that once it is decided he will leave, he will be required to leave very quickly.', 'We have done our best to advocate for a reasonable transition plan that would prepare our foster son for wherever he may go from here. Change scares him. It makes his little heart practically beat right out of his chest. He deserves the time and effort needed to help him adjust to another move. He deserves to see all the grown-ups who love him working together on the same team. His team.', 'Since I can’t promise him he will stay, and no one else will promise me that he’ll be granted an opportunity to ease into his next home, I do the only thing I can think to do. I try to plant the seeds of change in a way that prepares him for the possibility of it without adding to his fear.', 'I take a breath and allow myself a quick moment to be proud of him and the way he has come to grasp the concept of decisions and consequences. This boy who just months ago struggled to understand the simple cause and effect rules of childhood. Things like, if you throw a toy, that toy will be put away for the rest of the day.', 'As we head into the house together, I wonder when he will ask me again. Maybe tomorrow or maybe even later the same day. He will ask again if he can stay with us forever or if we can call the judge. I suspect that he both understands more than we think he does, and that he’s more confused than we could ever know.', 'When he asks again, I will answer him again. I will try to keep my words simple and clear and reassuring. I will focus on the only thing I know for sure — that he is loved.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


The School Conference Blues
['Loading...', 'Middle school parent-teacher conferences are tomorrow and I can’t bring myself to think about going.', 'It’s not the two hours I’ll wait sitting on hard chairs in the hallway, anticipating my allotted five minutes of playing musical chairs with each teacher.', 'It’s that I haven’t heard a teacher say one nice thing about my child in about a year.', 'When I was in middle school, my father was one of my teachers. One day in his seventh-grade social studies class, a friend sitting behind me somehow let the pencil in his hand fly across the room. To my friend’s utter horror, it hit my father, square in the middle of his overly large forehead.', 'The class fell silent.', 'My dad’s stormy brow of intensity — what I referred to as his “serious lines” — smoothed, the corners of his mouth turned up, and he broke out laughing.', 'A big reason he became a teacher was that he liked kids, and he could delight in the absurdity of a roomful of seventh graders. I know he also had days of complete exasperation, usually with parents. I often overheard the phone calls: parents who thought their child could do nothing wrong, parents who didn’t support him, parents who were constantly attacking him and the way he taught or his expectations.', 'But even when he was frustrated with  a student, he was upbeat, positive and full of support as he talked to the parent.', 'I’m beginning to wonder if my father is some strange middle school teacher anomaly — an empath with evolved communication skills — because this is not the way my child’s teachers interact with me.', 'My son struggles with organization and self-motivation. Because of this, even though he is in advanced classes, he’s not a top performer. But he’s certainly not failing or in trouble. He’s right in the middle, which is, I’m learning, where a lot of kids get lost.', 'Classes my child should be skating through, he has just barely passed. Not because he doesn’t know or understand the material, but because he is losing work or forgetting about work.', 'Scouring the Internet for organizational strategies that might help him, I found an article with a really familiar script. The writer’s experience with her child was so relatable, it felt as if it had been written after sitting and listening to the back-and-forth in our home over the course of a week.', 'And it was the first time I didn’t feel alone in watching my child flounder with managing his workload.', 'What a relief to find that my child is on the spectrum of normal.', 'Well, I suppose if you mean, “hope you feel like a complete and total failure,” then yeah, it helps a ton.', 'For parents, these brief interactions with teachers are about things that keep us up at night. They are about the people we love more than pretty much anything in the world.', 'I think back to three years ago and how terrified I was of middle school for my son. Would this huge school with 800 kids swallow him whole? Would he be picked on? Would he survive?', 'In his middle school career, my child has grown taller than me, gained more friends than I can name and learned to love running and drumming and student leadership. In that time, he has had perhaps 20 teachers.', 'Exactly two of them have ever said something notably positive about this amazing kid to me.', 'I wish that teachers would consider that as much as parents want to know about areas that our children are struggling in, we’re also wondering what teachers like about them.', 'Do they notice that my son gets along with almost everyone, that he loves to be included and joins all the clubs, that his friends mean a lot to him, that he loves to read and has a huge vocabulary, that he laughs boisterously, that even when things are hard he trudges through mostly with a smile, that he’s determined, he’s smart, he’s energetic, he’s optimistic?', 'I wish teachers would use the conferences, emails and phone calls with parents as opportunities to mention each child’s strengths as well as the areas that need improvement.', 'Not merely to make the parents feel better, but because the students deserve to be seen for who they are and not only for their ability to perform.', 'Kathi Valeii is a freelance writer and blogger who writes primarily about gender, parenting and justice-related issues. Her work can be found at The Establishment, xoJane, Mutha Magazine and on her blog, Birth Anarchy.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


When Another Child Wants to Be Friends and Yours Does Not
['Loading...', 'Sometimes every parent needs advice.  For our occasional advice column, we post readers’ questions that we know (or at least suspect) plague more than one parent. You — the readers — provide the advice: How have you made this work better in your family? I invite an expert to add to the discussion.', 'My middle school child has been dealing with another child at school who is pursuing him — sometimes just hanging out near him, sometimes actively trying to get his attention by doing things like spraying water from the fountain at him in the hallways. My son doesn’t want to be friends, and he’s been getting in trouble for responding to the other boy in kind.', 'How do you help your middle schooler handle kids who are bothersome, frustrating, annoying or just not someone they want to be friends with? Sometimes, especially if that child has demonstrated some level of social awkwardness, it can feel like polite adult tactics won’t work. My son has talked to his teachers and even the vice principal and thinks the school understands that this other child is a challenge, but the situation hasn’t changed. How should I help my son respond better? Should I approach the school? I don’t want to intervene, but I’m wondering if I should.', 'With a middle schooler, she advises parents to make sure the child has tried everything before intervening. In this case, the son has approached adults at the school and now needs to have a strategy for handling the other student himself.', 'Parents should let the child take the lead in coming up with responses, but can and should help. Most children will want to start with a nonverbal approach, because directly telling someone that you don’t want their company is hard. Children can lower their eye contact, turn their backs or look in the other direction when the other child is approaching, Ms. Nair says. If the other student begins a conversation your child doesn’t want to participate in but can’t easily physically leave (at a lunchroom table, for example), your child could respond with “mmm-hmmm” or take out a book.', 'Finally, she suggests talking together about why this child might be doing these things. “There’s a difference between understanding and empathizing, and being O.K. with it,” she says. You can help your child learn that we can appreciate why someone might do something without having to like the person or the action.', 'How have you helped your child handle challenging middle-school social situations? Have you had to intervene with a school or even another family, and did it help?', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


A Family Adds Five Children, Special Needs and All
['Loading...', 'Members of Diane Stanley’s family gathered in the courtroom on the day the five youngest children were adopted.', 'Diane Stanley has seven children in her home: her biological son, Cooper, 18; her foster son, David, 22, who is intellectually disabled; and five younger children whom she and her husband adopted in November 2015. Those five include the biological siblings Demetries, 8; Caleb, 4; and Maya, 2; as well as the biological sisters Julianna, 7, and Juliette, 6. She is also the mother of two adult children and the stepmother to two adult children, and she has one stepdaughter, 14, who lives with her mother.', 'We were planning to take a break from taking any additional foster child placements. My father had cancer. We’d had a rough year.', 'But then I got the call about a little baby girl, and I looked at my husband and said, “O.K., babe, come on.” He agreed— and as we were driving home to get some things ready, they called and said, Actually, we don’t know that you’re going to want to do this, because she’s got two brothers.', 'And I asked, Well, where would they go? They said they had nowhere else for them to go — they’ll have to go to a group home or a shelter. Just bring them, I said, we’ll figure it out. My husband was looking over at me, only able to hear my side of the call, and he was just wondering what was going to happen next.', 'They came to our home with almost nothing: three diapers, no formula. They each had one change of clothes, which were all too small. Maya was 5 months old, Caleb was 19 months and Demetries was 6 years old. They were with us for about a year, and then their mother lost her parental rights.', 'Then we got a call about two little girls who had been in the foster system for about three years, moving around a lot. They were looking for a forever home for them. Would we be interested?', 'We formally adopted all five of them in November 2015. So, we have three in elementary school and one in preschool, and the youngest is about to turn 3, and she attends a daycare-type preschool, as well.', 'We are definitely starting over. We actually have a grandchild on the way.', 'We get up very early, about 6:15 a.m. We start getting breakfast and lunches going, then we start getting kids ready. Generally Jeff will do the boys and I will do the girls, but Caleb wasn’t feeling well yesterday, so I was with him.', 'One challenge has been learning to do African-American hair and skin care. Yesterday, they just wore headbands, because that’s all my husband can do. He gave cereal to the four younger ones that were going to school and sat down with them, and with David. Cooper skipped breakfast. He’s a junior in high school. He doesn’t do breakfast on school days.', 'Cooper drives David to Bridges, a “dayhab” center that provides occupational and educational services to children and adults with disabilities, before he goes to school. They left first, then my husband was just leaving, but he and Julianna could not find the jacket she wanted to wear.', 'I try to be very organized and put the kids’ shoes and coat in a certain place, but this just wasn’t there. The search was on. We could not find her jacket, and she didn’t want any other jacket, it had to be this jacket, and with these little ones, you just don’t push that. They need to feel like they can count on things, even if it’s something as small as a jacket.', 'Finally, I said, “Maya, have you seen her jacket?” Maya got this little 2-year-old grin, and she opened the door of the dryer, and there it was.', 'It could stress you out, or you could just look at it and laugh.', 'So Jeff got them out the door, and I kept Caleb home with me. He normally goes to prekindergarten. They left at 7:25. My husband usually does all the drop-offs before driving back home before work, so he leaves me the big Chevy Suburban and takes the little car.', 'I had errands to run, and Caleb had to go with me. I told him he could be my helper at the grocery store, and he lit up. He did great. I think it helps when they each get to have an outing one-on-one with a parent.', 'When we got home he helped me put some of the groceries away, and then he lay down for a nap. I immediately started dividing everything else up, packaging some for meals and putting some in the freezer for the following week.', 'At 2:30 p.m. I woke Caleb, and we got into the car to get the girls from school. The day before I’d had to pick them up early for an appointment. The kids all have a lot of needs. It seems like almost every day it’s something\xa0— an appointment or someone is sick. It’s pretty rare for me to feel like it’s an ordinary day.', 'When they were our foster children, we received a monthly check, health insurance and help with summer camps and activities. Now that the kids are adopted, they don’t get very much financial help. But we’re digging into our retirement and opening another business. They’re ours. We love them.', 'The money had no bearing on our decision. It turned out that because they were considered “hard to place” children, there is still a small stipend. The amount of aid has gone down $40,000 a year because we adopted them. They still have health insurance, but it has been downgraded to a state plan that doesn’t cover as much.', 'After we picked up the girls, I brought them home for a snack. They worked on homework. They have reading homework and some written homework every night\xa0— maybe a worksheet or some math. I sit down with them. I treat it like home-schooling. Demetries is the only one who can do it on his own, and he wasn’t home. He stays after school for an hour every Tuesday for an artist’s club.', 'Because of what they’ve been through and because it’s all so new, things take longer. Based on their age, you would expect them to have experienced certain things, but they haven’t necessarily. They’ve never had birthday parties. They didn’t have to sit down with homework every night. Julianna and Juliette have been in eight different homes by now. When we have a guest come over, they’ll ask: Are they going to take us away?', 'They’re happy and excited to have permanency, but they don’t really grasp it. We are in teaching mode with everything. It can be draining. It takes a lot of patience, and I fail sometimes. I lose my patience and get a little flustered, but then I stop and take a step back. It’s not just one day at a time, it’s one minute at a time around here.', 'After homework, the kids played outside for a while, then we loaded back into the car to go pick up Demetries, and immediately had to rush elsewhere because Julianna and Demetries are going to be munchkins in the coming “The Wizard of Oz” play at the high school. It was a two-hour practice, and I brought coloring books and a tablet for Juliette and Caleb.', 'When we came home, Demetries did homework at the table while I was starting dinner. Jeff got Maya. We had dinner. It was a really uneventful night: no major fits, no one getting in trouble or acting out. When I say uneventful, that means no major knock-down, drag-out fights. Just normal stuff.', 'The older boys had to work. David is a bagger at Brookshire’s grocery store; Cooper works at a fast-food restaurant, Chicken Express. Cooper is a big help with David — he’s a big help with all of the kids. Early on, it was a hard transition, but he has seen how needed it is, and how many kids need a mom and a dad in the world. He has kind of embraced it now.', 'We come together with the younger children and have family time before bedtime. We pray and do a bedtime story and talk to them about their day, as well as the next day and what the plans for the week are.', 'Things go much more smoothly if they know what to expect the next day. Julianna will ask me step by step what is going on, questioning about every little detail, even what she’s wearing. I believe it is a result of what’s she’s been through. She doesn’t want any surprises. I asked her nurse practitioner at the Rees-Jones Center about it, and she told me to keep helping Julianna know what the plan is, even for minor things. That’s part of why she really wanted her jacket in the morning.', 'So many foster kids have had so little control over their lives. They’re told where to live and when to leave, what kind of toothpaste they can use, what bowl they get. I try to give them choices so they can feel in control of those, and not do the negative things that have been all they can control up to now.', 'Once the kids are in bed, I prepare their snack for tomorrow and retrieve all the lunch stuff. The two little ones don’t have to take lunch, so I’m only doing five lunches a day. I’ve told Cooper and David that, since they help me so much with everything else, I’ll still make their lunches for them. They got lucky.', 'David got off at 9 p.m., so my husband picked him up. Cooper didn’t get off until 11. Our gas bill is almost as high as our grocery bill! And we haven’t even started basketball yet, and the girls will start dance too. There is a lot more ahead.', 'We don’t get out much. We don’t have any babysitting. It’s not easy to leave them. When they were in state custody we couldn’t — every caregiver has to be licensed by the state. After we adopted them, we could decide, but we still can’t just hire any teenager\xa0— and I don’t want to put that all on Cooper.', 'We’ve had one date night, because a young woman who works at the daycare was available. Any time we can get her, we snap her up.', 'We’re getting into a routine. Things are going more smoothly every day. It’s a lot, but we can handle it — although more date nights might help.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Calorie Counts on the Kids’ Menu
['Loading...', 'One kid-favorite Panera cinnamon crunch bagel: 430 calories. Add a medium low-fat strawberry banana smoothie (260 calories) or even just a lemonade (240 calories), and your 7-year-old is well into his 1,600-calorie budget for the day.', 'Of course, kids rarely finish what’s on their plates, and it’s unlikely that all of those calories made their way into your child (and more than likely that a few went into your own mouth). But those numbers shouldn’t surprise you if you’re a Panera customer, and if you’re not already familiar with similar calorie counts from other chains, you soon will be. By December of this year, the Food and Drug Administration will require all retail food establishments that are part of a chain with 20 or more locations to post calorie counts on their menus and menu boards.', 'I’ve found that posted calorie counts do change my behavior. I “downsize” when it’s an option, or intentionally consume only part of what I’ve purchased. I’ve also made changes in what I purchase for my children, and I never encourage them to finish it, although it can be galling to throw away half of a $7 Starbucks snack.', 'But when it comes to evaluating what my children eat (at chain restaurants and everywhere else), I should look beyond calories, says Jessica Shepard, a certified holistic health consultant who has studied nutrition. “Calories are a guideline,” she says, “but we need to think about things like nutritional density and the value our body gets as a whole.” If the low-fat strawberry-banana smoothie at 260 calories is made with yogurt and gets its sugar largely from whole fruits, it has a much different nutritional profile than the 240-calorie lemonade.', 'If the calorie counts encourage us to be more aware of our choices, that’s a good thing, says Ms. Shepard, as long as we look beyond the number. She suggests encouraging children to make a choice that includes some protein, some fat and some fiber, especially if they need a meal or snack that will fuel them through a busy day.', 'If we use calorie counts on menus as a reminder to think more about what we are eating and what we’re feeding our children, they can have a positive impact on those meals, whether they ultimately have a negative affect on our national waistline.', 'Do calorie counts on menus affect what you eat when they’re posted, and do they affect what you purchase for your children? How do you talk to your children about those numbers?', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Stop Asking if My 4-Year-Old Has a ‘Girlfriend’
['Loading...', 'My father isn’t the first person to ask my son if he has a\xa0girlfriend. The question pops up frequently when we’re visiting friends of my mother’s over the holidays or talking to affable cashiers at the supermarket. It’s always asked in the same way — with genial good humor and an air of expectation, as if they already know the answer.', 'My son typically responds with a blank stare — not, it should be noted, the aggressively vacant stare I cultivated in my 20s to discourage the apparently benign interest of family and friends in my romantic life, but an actual stare of incomprehension.', 'He doesn’t understand the question because he’s 4 years old. Five months ago, he started prekindergarten. Three weeks ago he learned how to calculate seven minus five on his hands. Yesterday, he had a dry overnight diaper for the fifth morning in a row.', 'Unable to let the moment play out, I jump in with an answer: Yes, I say, he has\xa0girl\xa0friends and boy friends. He has, in fact, lots of friends.', 'I say it calmly and pleasantly, with a polite smile that reveals nothing of how I truly feel about this question — this ludicrous question that follows little children around like a puppy sensing scraps. I understand that it’s just the meaningless chatter of adults trying to make conversation with children. I get that their intentions are 100 percent harmless.', 'And yet every time this question is posed, I hear insidious rumblings. I hear heteronormative expectation: You’re a boy, so naturally, you’ll like girls. I hear the gender indoctrination: Girls aren’t like boys, so you should treat them differently. I hear the premature insertion of sexual politics: Girls aren’t your friends; they’re potential objects of desire.', 'In this one seemingly innocuous query, I hear one generation imposing on the next one its resolute idea of How Things Are.', 'Why do we do this? Why do we endlessly replicate mature patterns for young audiences? Are we, like the men chasing the maidens on Keats’s Grecian urn, locked forever in “mad pursuit”? Do we instinctively reach for the same worn blueprint, or do we collectively make the choice to pass it along?', 'At this age, there’s no difference in the way my son treats boys and girls. There’s no variation in the tenor of his laughter, no disparity in the force of his giddiness. There’s only the joy in being chased — around the playground, down the block, through the velvet curtains that line the black-box studio where we had his birthday party. He isn’t enacting an archetype that has existed for thousands of years. He’s simply being himself in the presence of his friends.', 'Later, perhaps, his attitude will change. Maybe when puberty kicks in he will assume the awkwardness of Charlie Brown or the forwardness of Sally. Perhaps this will happen much sooner than I think. Maybe first grade. Maybe even kindergarten.', 'But right now, he’s 4 and learning how to subtract with his fingers, and he doesn’t need to be enmeshed in a complex web of dating rituals. He needs to go to the park and to have a sixth dry night.', 'And when he’s ready for a girlfriend — or a boyfriend — I’ll let you know. But be warned: If you ask about it, he might still give you a blank stare.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Food Lessons From Families of Kids With Allergies
['Loading...', 'Kelly Rudnicki’s son Michael, 6, prepares batter for cookies that are allergy-safe for her family.', 'Four out of every hundred children in the United States suffer from a food allergy, according to the\xa0Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And the problem appears to be getting worse. From 1997\xa0to 2007, the prevalence of food allergies increased 18 percent among children.', 'Symptoms of food allergy range from mild tingling and hives around the mouth to a severe life-threatening reaction. Eight foods — milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy and wheat — account for 90 percent of allergic reactions to food.', 'While most parents worry about whether their children are eating healthful foods, parents of children with food allergies have far more at stake. Cooking every night or avoiding fast food can seem like an enormous challenge, but when your child has a life-threatening allergy you have few options.', 'I spoke with three families of children with food allergies about how they cope. Here are seven lessons they taught me about healthful eating they’ve learned that can apply to every family.', 'Anyone can learn to cook.', 'Planning ahead makes everything easier.', 'Cooking doesn’t have to take too much time.', 'Processed foods aren’t irresistible.', 'Between the marketing power of big food and the need to pack lunches and snacks with kid appeal that travel well, life without a stash of prepackaged food can seem impossible. Even families dealing with food allergies can usually find some go-to safe packaged choices. But they’re always checking the labels, always aware of every ingredient, and tend to substitute homemade snacks, fruit and whole food choices where they can. “If we can’t find something that they can eat, we try to make it for them,” said Ms. Henriquez.', 'Children can learn to speak for themselves.', 'We can learn what’s in our food, and where it comes from.', 'Reading labels means that parents as well as older children in food-allergic families are hyper-aware of every ingredient. Ms. Fuchs says that her son’s nut allergies “have made our eating cleaner and simpler.” The need to call and ask about processing methods means she knows where the foods come from, and the need to decipher every word on a label in search of hidden allergens means she’s had to learn the details of food production. “We have preservatives that are permitted in this country that aren’t permitted other places,” she says.', 'You can’t control everything.', 'Kelly Rudnicki’s cookies, made from a recipe that is safe for her son’s allergies.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Why Teenage Girls Roll Their Eyes
['Loading...', 'Many people can roll their eyes, but adolescent girls have practically monopolized the ocular gesture as a form of communication. Adults on the receiving end of an eye roll are often offended, and sometimes that’s just what the girl had in mind. But frequently, it’s not. Eye-rolling serves a variety of purposes, and the meanings behind the mannerism tell us a lot about what it’s like to be a teenager.', 'Adolescents usually hate being told what to do, and will reflexively resist even suggestions with which they agree. Imagine a girl who is planning to put on her warmest coat when her well-meaning mother urges her to bundle up. If the teenager is developing normally, not a cell in her body is inclined to respond with a sincere, “Great idea, Mom! I was just thinking the same thing.” (And her mom might be stunned, or at least wonder what her daughter was up to, if she did.) But the girl still wants to be warm. Enter the eye roll! One spin around the socket while donning the coat and the girl advertises her resistance while doing as she intended all along.', 'Given that the drive for autonomy is a central force during adolescence, taking orders can be especially annoying for teenagers. So how should a girl respond when her parents say she can’t go out for the evening until she unloads the dishwasher? She may see no point in fighting back, but still feel compelled to broadcast her objection. Again, ophthalmic calisthenics offer a useful solution. By rolling her eyes while putting away the plates, the girl establishes that she’s an independent state electing to yield, for now, to the regional power.', 'Girls also use eye-rolling to communicate that an adult has crossed a line. If parents hold irrational expectations, make arbitrary rules, or recruit shame when ordinary anger would do, girls sometimes stick up for themselves by rolling their eyes. Teens who appear to be disrespectful rarely spur adults toward self-reflection, but eye-rolling may be the best defense a teenager can muster in a heated moment. When girls in my practice tell me about their fights at home, I’m often moved by how carefully they weigh the decision to sacrifice something in their relationship with their parent so as not to sacrifice something in themselves.', 'Of course, girls occasionally use eye-rolling as an immature act of aggression. They attack one another and adults with the dismissive, demeaning gesture and can provoke reasonable people into retaliatory responses. When eye-rolling is clearly meant as an insult, parents can try to raise the relational bar by saying, “That’s rude. I’m trusting you’ll soon find a more mature way to let me know what you’re thinking,” or something along those lines. But more often than not, teenage eye-rolling serves as an efficient solution to the typical challenges posed by adolescence. And it presents adults with a choice: We can take the behavior personally, or we can try to see things from their perspective.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Mile 13 in the Deployment Marathon
['Loading...', "The author's contribution to a Navy ship's slide show on what families look forward to when their loved ones get home.", 'The hardest part of the journey is the first step, right? Respectfully, I disagree; I think it’s the steps in the middle. We’ve just passed the halfway point in my Navy husband’s seven-month deployment (preceded by over a year of constant in-and-out travel for training, called “work-ups”), and instead of sprinting to a finish line, it feels like my 5-year-old daughter, 3-year-old son and I are crawling along a never-ending trail.', 'During my husband’s first deployment in 2009, I passed the time alone in Guam by training for the Marine Corps Marathon. The day before the race, I went for a “pre-run shakeout” with the running expert Bart Yasso and a group of participants in the Runner’s World Challenge I’d been training with online.', 'Maybe it’s because I expected it or maybe it’s because it was just that hard, but the next day, right around mile marker 13, I wanted to quit. I sat down on the curb and tried to find the motivation to keep going. I stretched on the sidewalk and watched a small group of women, each wearing a gold star, run by. As they passed, the pictures printed on the backs of their shirts seemed to stare through me. The photos were of their heroes – some husbands, some sons – all killed in action. I immediately got up and didn’t stop running until I’d crossed the finish line.', 'We’re in mile 13 of this deployment. The middle is tough. The supportive cheers have thinned out, the fatigue has certainly set in, and if quitting was an option I can’t say I wouldn’t take it. The kids are tired of Daddy being gone, he’s tired of missing things, and I’m just tired. I needed that moment on the curb, some sort of tipping point to make it all feel manageable again.', 'The ship has a Family Readiness Group – a support group for the thousand or so families that have been left behind during this deployment. When the group asked for someone to put together a slide show to be watched aboard the ship during their halfway-through-deployment celebration at sea, I volunteered. The theme for the pictures was “What we’re looking forward to when you get home.” Photos from families missing their Marines and sailors, holding signs promising good times ahead, flooded my inbox.', 'In the pictures, I found what I’d been missing. From a husband looking forward to a date night, a wife awaiting a road trip, to parents planning home-cooked meals for their children, half a world away, I found strength. I drew encouragement from siblings wanting to swap stories, families excited about camping, and children – so many children – counting down the days to taking their dad to the park or their mom to the zoo. Strangers, bonded together by our hope for a ship’s safe return and our want for our hearts to be whole again.', 'Above all, I found my “I can do this” moment in a photo of a woman holding a sleeping infant and her sign: “Meeting Daddy.” The mother in the photo is one of 16 women to give birth so far during this deployment. We might be tired, but we are over halfway there. It’s time to get up and start running again.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Doctor’s Orders: Stay in Bed and Do Nothing
['Loading...', 'The author’s son.', 'It’s 3 in the morning when a lovely woman dressed in baby blue slips through a crack in the door to take my vital signs: temperature, blood pressure. She pings my knees with a rubber mallet, does a jerky massage on my feet to see if they’re swollen.', 'I’d been living in this surreal and foreign land for seven weeks. Some nights it resembled an alien abduction: green flashing lights and identically dressed figures who hooked me up to mysterious machines at four-hour intervals.', 'Of course, that woman in blue was a night shift nurse in scrubs, and this was no abduction. I’d been on one of the world’s dullest assignments with life or death consequences. It’s the Cold War desk job of pregnancy: bed rest. Your life is the tedious equivalent of being glued to the same spot shuffling paperwork all day, but one innocuous wrong move and you might set off a chain reaction akin to the Cuban Missile Crisis in your uterus.', 'On the Antepartum Unit, we got ultrasounds every few days at dawn. In the dark, the scene on the sonographer’s glowing screen resembled an old Jacques Cousteau documentary. A prehistoric looking creature swam in the eerie underwater light, resembling a cross between an exotic mammal and a reptile extinct since the last ice age.', 'Apparently that was my son, at 30 weeks into pregnancy. How would I possibly fasten a diaper on that body?', 'I was still in my second trimester when my water broke in a hospital elevator. The best you could say about the situation is that I was already in the hospital.', 'Bed rest is like Las Vegas. It’s nice for three days, but stay any longer and you might lose your mind.', 'Johnny Depp received when checking out of the Mark Hotel after he and Kate Moss trashed it, and Veuve Cliquot is not even on the hospital room service menu.', 'If you’re wondering how I could afford to sit in a bed for a couple of months and do nothing, the answer is that I couldn’t. As a freelance writer with neither disability insurance nor paid maternity leave, I couldn’t stop working. So I learned to type with an I.V. stuck in my right wrist, strapped to a heart monitor and a contraction monitor.', 'I tried to remind myself that the sheer ability to work from bed rest is a luxury, one that women who work in retail or restaurants lack. But after having to cancel all of the assignments that required me to travel, teach or be physically present, it didn’t exactly feel like a luxury.', 'The day I was admitted, I expected to be treated and discharged within a day or two.', 'I suddenly pictured the atrophied blob of a human I would become after months in bed, barely able to muster the strength required to care for a newborn.', 'Of course, some patients did go AWOL, or at least the antepartum equivalent of it: A.M.A., which stands for leaving against medical advice. That means that you sign a paper stating that you are declining recommended treatment at your own risk.', 'After a month moored to a hospital bed, my relationship to free will began to evolve. It’s easy to procrastinate when you feel at liberty, but just lack (there is always an excuse, is there not?) the money, the time, the motivation, the courage. But when you cannot go anywhere, when your freedom is reduced to a room, your perspective shifts.', 'Earlier this year, in the spring, I was hiking the Camino de Santiago in Spain, a thousand-year-old pilgrimage trail that winds from the Pyrenees to the Galician coast. Your essential task on the Camino is simple: You rise every day at around dawn, slip on your backpack, and walk all day to the next destination.', 'I learned on the Camino that I am not patient, and that this is one of my worst qualities: always thinking, always looking behind or ahead. Bed rest is like a reverse Camino. My job was to wake up every day at the crack of dawn and not go anywhere. The doctors advised me not to think too far into the future, though I have been practicing this dubious skill my whole life.', 'One doctor told me, “This is the most important job you’ll ever do.” I blanched at first, probably because I’ve never wanted to think of motherhood as a job. Then I realized what she meant. I needed to focus on staying pregnant — giving the baby time to get bigger and stronger — at least for one more day.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


A Blended Family Survival Guide
['Loading...', 'Almost 20 years ago, when our five kids were all in elementary school, Rique and I blended our families. That’s the word the parenting industry uses. “Blend.” Talk about euphemism. There is no stress in the word “blend.” It’s one utterly pleasant syllable.', 'Blend is how you make smoothies. Another delightful word. You blend the bananas till they are indistinguishable from the strawberries. Put children in a family ‘blender’ and something quite different happens.', 'The result will not be smooth. Think chunky. Salsa is a much better analogy. Chunks that sometimes complement, like tomato and pepper, and often contrast, like mango and jalapeño. It’s not smooth, and it’s certainly not boring.', 'I tried for years to write this essay. But I was on the front lines, and every time I sat down to start, the battle shifted. The boys were fighting the girls. Then the step-siblings were squaring off. Then when things calmed down — for eight seconds — the bio-parents were on the phone negotiating. So I’m going to start at the end: The kids are all right. And they’re not kids anymore. Zack, who at 30 is the oldest, is mine. Jonah, 29, is Rique’s. Max, 27, mine. Kaley, 26, Rique’s. And Zoey, 24, mine.', 'By most measures, we could be the poster child for blended families. Our kids grew up largely under the same roof. Rique’s kids were with us almost exclusively, and my kids were with us for half of each week. They went to school together and hung out after school just about every day at our house. Sometimes when my kids were at their mother’s house, they’d take Rique’s kids with them. And vice versa.', 'Today they are as close as any biological siblings. They don’t use the word “step” when describing their relationships. Kaley and Zoey look as if they share the same genes, even though they have only shared the same jeans.  Zack and Jonah went to the same college and roomed together in their frat house. Kaley texts Zack almost every day. Max and Jonah live three blocks from each other. Zoey and Jonah tease each other as only real siblings can.', 'So how did we pull this off? Well, for one thing, we had no idea how bad the odds against us were. Fortunately the Internet was younger than our children, so we were able to keep some semblance of ignorance, which we expressed as optimism. We didn’t know that second marriages have only a one in three chance of survival. Or that when you add kids, the chances go down. And yet we survived even this: five teenagers under the same roof at one time.', 'Here are four rules, developed only after years of crashing around in the blender, rule-less and clueless.', 'Rule 1:  Stop measuring yourself against nuclear families.', 'You will never achieve the harmony of even a dysfunctional nuclear family. Those families occupy a single ecosystem. Your new blended family is a diverse, sometimes turbulent mix of ecosystems.', 'Rule 2:  Embrace the diversity.', 'Biodiversity works in nature.  Maybe it can work for your family. If there is a storm brewing in one ecosystem, spend your day focusing on another one. Enjoy the variety. Every day is different. (And you may need a spreadsheet to keep it straight.) My kids came back from their mother’s on Wednesdays. Every other week they stayed at our house through Sunday. That meant all five kids for five days. Then it was just Rique’s kids for a few days. On Tuesdays, no kids. And the schedule would be blown up when one of the other parents wanted to schedule a vacation.', 'You know that vacation I just mentioned? Say yes to it. And to the special request that Mom makes to spend a mother-daughter night after a soccer game even though the soccer game falls on your night. And to the plea from your kids to change the schedule just for this week. Say yes.  You messed with their lives. You’re the reason they have a schedule. Be flexible. Say yes with a smile, not a caveat.', 'Rule 4: Get a dog.', 'You need a dog. I can hear you saying, “Yeah, like I need a chronic illness.” You have enough chaos in your life, especially at the beginning — moving to a new house, divvying up bedrooms, negotiating schedules, figuring out carpools. Well, add to that list, housetraining a puppy. Yes, I said a puppy. You don’t just need a dog — you need a needy, couch-chewing, desperately adorable puppy. Go to the pound. Go the day after you move in. Let the kids choose the dog.', 'That’s how we got Ribsy, part terrier/part possibly-Portuguese water dog — pure mutt.  A mess of shaggy-sheep-doggish fur, 5 months old, returned to the pound by two different families. She was broken and so were we, and she helped us become one family because she was the one thing that belonged equally to all of us.', 'In the beginning, we were separate families living under the same roof. The Sollisch kids. The Weiss kids. The new Mr. and Mrs. Sollisch. But within minutes of bringing home this homeless, orphaned puppy, we were Ribsy’s family. We were all she had. And that turned out to be enough.  For all of us.', 'Jim Sollisch is a creative director at Marcus Thomas Advertising.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


A Conversation With ‘The Restaurant Critic’s Wife’
['Loading...', 'Two things engage me when it comes to fiction — characters I want to spend more time with, and details, the juicier the better, from a world I’m curious about, but not likely to ever experience.', 'Elizabeth LaBan’s novel “The Restaurant Critic’s Wife” has both. When Sam, the restaurant critic of the title, is offered his dream job in Philadelphia, his wife, Lila, a young woman who never meant to settle down, is pulled from her familiar career world into a life in a new city as a wife and mother. Both she and the reader become enmeshed in Sam’s determination to make a success of his life as a food writer, even if it means going to extremes (like laughable disguises and Dumpster-diving for cans to prove that a restaurant’s tomato sauce isn’t homemade).', 'The best part? Ms. LaBan really is a restaurant critic’s wife. Her husband writes for The Philadelphia Inquirer — which means that the wonderful details in the book both ring true and occasionally are.', 'I asked her to talk about not just the book, but the life and people behind it.', 'Q.', 'Writers always say their characters “aren’t me,” but there are so many similarities between your life and the book. What’s true, and what’s invention?', 'A.', 'Lila is not me. I know how crazy that sounds — my husband, Craig, is a restaurant critic, and that’s defined our whole marriage. We do have two children, an older girl and a younger boy, and we do live in a neighborhood in Center City in Philadelphia. And we do have these very careful rules in place — I almost never say his name when we’re out, we never make reservations in our own name. But Craig is not as controlling as Sam. And Lila comes to marriage and kids really thinking that’s not what she wants. She wasn’t looking for Sam. Even their first baby was pretty much an accident. That’s not me. I’ve always wanted to be married and have a family. But Lila doesn’t think she wants it, and so it becomes very restrictive.', 'Q.', 'Lila’s husband, Sam, is himself very restrictive. He doesn’t want her to make friends, or work. I’m not sure I’ve ever disliked a character as much as I did Sam for most of the book. Was that on purpose?', 'A.', 'Oh, I think there are a lot of soft sides to Sam. He has a calmness about him that is so good with the kids. And he’s so terrified of not doing a good job. He’s focused. He just can’t really see past his craziness, and it’s exaggerated because they’re new to the city and he just sees this opportunity. Then, we’re in Lila’s head, and she can’t really see that sometimes he’s trying, really being very nice, and sometimes she’s driving him crazy too.', 'And Craig was never like that. It’s true I can’t be friends with restaurant owners, that would really cross a line. I could never get to that point. And things like not calling restaurants from our home phone have just become second nature to me. But Craig is totally reasonable. This book is a perfect example. I’m out there now. He was really O.K. with it.', 'Q.', 'Your picture is on the book. Does that mean you can’t eat out with him any more?', 'A.', 'No, it hasn’t really mattered. This is my third book. If someone wanted to find my picture before, they certainly could. It wasn’t quite as in-your-face as this book. But really, people don’t notice me. People aren’t really looking for you every day. And I don’t go out with him every time he goes out. Maybe once or twice a month.', 'Q.', 'The book is really a glimpse into your world for the rest of us. What were some of your favorite things to write about?', 'A.', 'Some of the moments we’ve had were really fun. Like when Craig first started, he tried disguises. In the book, Sam wears a fake mustache, and he can’t really talk, and the waitress treats him like a child, because there’s clearly something wrong with him, and then the mustache falls off. The disguises always looked like costumes. Craig hasn’t worn a disguise in years.', 'And Sam is really focused on food, and when he and Lila are leaving the hospital after the baby is born, he’s like, I really want to try this hoagie shop, and it will just take a minute, and it takes forever — that really happened. I was so mad, and our son was screaming in the back seat.', 'But then we got home, and we had these great hoagies, and we were so happy. That’s mostly what it’s really like. It’s one big eating adventure after another. We have a lot of fun with it. The kids and I don’t get tired of it, we’re always saying, let’s go out. Let’s try something. And then sometimes Craig would just like to eat at home.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Two Cooks, Two Kitchens, Two Organizing Plans
['Loading...', 'KJ Dell’Antonia’s kitchen, en route to tidiness. The process took 10 days.', 'My kitchen wasn’t awful. Many nights, the clutter on the counter was arranged quite neatly. Most of the cabinets closed. We could cook in it, and did, with joy.', 'But the cleaning up process never made me happy. I hated the shifting and wedging of pans into drawers and the way the cornstarch always turned up the day after I’d purchased a new box. My four kids seemed to feel that if fruit could be stored in a basket on the counter, so could their iPod chargers, recently acquired party favors and math homework.', 'I’d arranged our kitchen when we first moved into the house two years ago, before we built a pantry. It’s a beautiful kitchen, with lots of counter space — and little storage that I can reach without a stepstool. I made it work, but things were scattered. The baking dishes lived on the basement stair shelves, the spices in three different places, canned goods in that one cabinet than combined height and depth in a way that turned it into the storage equivalent of a black hole. I decided to bring it all back together, and follow Marie Kondo’s core advice: “gather everything that belongs in the same category in one place, and keep only those things that bring you joy.” Her method — get it all out, discard what you don’t love, and then, and only then, arrange what’s left — would work for me.', 'As KJ said, we have a small kitchen, with a tragically tiny counter space, but we are lucky enough to have high ceilings with decent-sized cabinets. This is good because we love to cook, so we have room for all of our appliances and ingredients, but unfortunate because things get lost in those top cabinets (hello, steel-cut oatmeal from 2009!), and I always end up buying way more than we need. The worst offender was my spice cabinet, with the food storage container and sippy cup cabinet coming in at a close second. I was regularly terrified to open the spice cabinet for fear I might get brained by the pepper grinder, and my husband, who is the primary dishwasher and putter-away-er, was buried daily by the sippy cup/food storage avalanche. Both needed some serious revamping. With two little kids into everything, I knew Ms. Kondo’s approach would not work for me. I immediately connected with Ms. Wolf’s “just start” and “do what you can in 10-20-30 minute increments” approach. This, I thought, I can do.', 'To coin a phrase, that which you wish to tidy, you must first destroy. I gathered — by which I mean I took every single kitchen- or food-related item out of every single drawer or cupboard, off the shelves in the basement, out of the storage area back by the garage and everywhere else. Things the dogs wouldn’t eat I put on the floor in laundry baskets by category, the rest covered the counters and table. Because the rest of life didn’t stop, it took four days just to get it all out in the open, and the result was an extraordinary mess — apparently a step in the right direction.', 'One night after bedtime, I took out all 50 or so spices and lined them up in alphabetical order on the kitchen table. I consolidated those that I had multiples of (cinnamon, cinnamon, dear God, the cinnamon), tossed those I would never use (a 20-year old bottle of petrified Crazy Jane’s Mixed Up Salt because it reminded me of my late mother?) and wiped down all those remaining. I scrubbed down the inside of the cabinet and put in my new pair of three-tier cabinet organizers. (Ms. Wolf strongly believes that you should hold off on buying organizing products before de-cluttering, but in this case, I went with my gut. I knew there was no way I’d be able to fit all of those spices back into my cabinet without some shelves, and the ones I’d been using were wobbly.) I put my spices back in to the cabinet and, the heavens parted. That was two weeks ago, and I still can’t stop opening my cabinet to gaze adoringly at the little soldiers. It took me about one hour total. (Ms. Wolf suggests using a timer for accountability and action. I just kept an eye on the clock.) This was getting to be fun.', 'With my cabinets so beautifully clean and empty, the temptation was strong to start filling them up again (especially given the state of the kitchen). “Think about where to put things away ONLY after you are finished with deciding what you will keep and what you will throw away,” Ms. Kondo said firmly in her email.  Counter by counter, basket by basket, I went through things. We don’t need “kid dishes” anymore, although I kept some plastic plates we all love and use. We had far more bike water bottles than we could possibly need, and large quantities of plastic storage containers without lids and lids to missing plastic storage containers. Broken wooden spoons and spatulas that came apart at the mere glimpse of cake batter? Gone. The gravy boat I use one a year? Staying — because once a year, I really want that gravy boat.', 'Margaux Laskey’s daughters help her get organized.', 'Ms. Wolf says “Decluttering is a gateway drug,” and in my case, she is certainly right. After that initial success, I wanted to keep going. If an organized spice cabinet made preparing meals so much easier and less stressful, what would a more organized everything life feel like? I tackled my next project as the big blizzard hit. My husband was outside shoveling, and I was inside with the girls. Could I de-clutter with two kids underfoot?', 'I sated the girls with small bowls of Cheerios and Cheez-Its, while I tackled the sippy cup/food storage cabinet. I quickly made my way through the cabinet, tossing cups without straws, straws without cups, then any cups that we just never use. By the time I was done, we went from about 12 sippy cups to six. (Still too many? Probably.) I enlisted the help of the girls by asking them to put this or that in the trash, recycling or donations bag. We were done in 10 minutes. I still had time to clean off the layers of children’s artwork, old photos and receipts on the fridge and go through the kitchen paper “organizer” before a tired and dripping husband came through the door.', 'Once my discarding was complete (and in the trash, out the door to be donated or otherwise re-homed), I took time to really think about where I wanted the things in our kitchen to be. What did the kids need to be able to reach easily to cook for themselves? How could it be an easier place for the family to work in all together?', 'Ms. Kondo gets very specific on the subject of kitchens. Focus, she suggests, not on ease of use, but ease of cleaning. I’d always bought into the idea that cooking required having ingredients close at hand, but she suggests trying a different way, and planning to get things out before cooking and replace them.', 'I applied some of Ms. Wolf’s tactics outside the kitchen as well. One chapter in her book discusses how to cut down on digital clutter. Me? I had an email problem. A 48,000+ emails-in-my-inbox problem. Wolf suggests unsubscribing from newsletters/promos “like it’s your job.” I did that. She also suggests archiving emails (you can always get them back again if you really need them). I did that. I now have four emails in my inbox, and I only get a few promotional emails a day now as opposed to the 100/day I used to get. I also cleared out more than half of my closet last Saturday night. It was hard to let go of that red silk dress that accompanied me to so many weddings, but Ms. Wolf encourages you to “be brutal in letting go,” so out it went.', 'Drawers in KJ Dell’Antonia’s kitchen, with pans and lids tidily stored.', 'It took 10 full days before the kitchen was restored to order. Taking all that time did result in a truly organized kitchen, one that can be restored to rights easily every night, and one where my children seem less likely to leave clutter.', 'But — and it’s a big but — it would have been very difficult to do it this way when the children were younger. We had laundry baskets full of heavy, tempting breakables scattered around on the floor for days; moving them into another room or out of reach would have made the process more difficult, and it would probably have taken even longer. The “Konmari method,” as Ms. Kondo calls it, worked well for me now — so well that I’m only a few categories away from an entirely tidy house, and we’re all feeling the difference that being able to put things “away” instead of “somewhere” makes. That said, I have a lovely place to put our Christmas decorations away — but they’re still adorning the house, so this may take a while.', 'I’m not done yet. This is definitely a process, the development of a new habit that I’m hoping will stick. Next up is the dish cabinet (Ms. Wolf endorses tangible rewards to keep you jazzed, so ours will be a new matching set of dishes — after six years of marriage, we’re still eating off a hodgepodge collection). Then, the junk drawer, the vitamin/medicine drawer and the dog food/office supplies/cleaning supplies cabinet.', 'But it already feels like a new kitchen. There is order. There is space. I truly feel more relaxed, more restful, happier even, and my husband loves the results too. I’m guessing my girls sense this as well, and I hope we’re teaching them some valuable organizational habits, and more important, to be mindful about the items they choose to buy and bring into our house. I can already imagine the cost-benefit ratio discussion my older daughter and I will be having in the Target toy aisle this Saturday.', 'Wolf is not a big proponent of buying organizational products –  in most cases she likes clients to use what they have, shoeboxes, gift boxes, etc. – but thinks that if any room would benefit from a few simple organizational products, it’s the kitchen. She believes that If you can’t see it, you won’t use it, so If a set of cheap shelves can help you see what’s in your spice cabinet/canned goods cabinet/refrigerator/freezer, go for it (but only after you toss out all of the expired goods!).', 'Designate a folder to keep special works of art, and return to it every month or so to curate (sometimes you’ll find that the one picture you just had to keep, you don’t really need to keep anymore). Archive those you don’t keep using Flickr or an app like ArtKive. Think of it as an evolving process.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


Why Students Lie, and Why We Fall for It
['Loading...', 'I’ve been a teacher, primarily of middle and high school English and Latin, for a long while now, and in that time I’ve been conned a thousand times. Now, I love my students. They are some of the most kind, giving and earnest children I know. And yet they have cheated, forged notes and lied to me. While I’ve usually been able to get at the truth behind my students’ deceit, I have to admit I have a few unsolved cases filed away in my desk drawer.', 'I emailed Ms. Konnikova, asking her to help me understand why my students lie, cheat and steal, and to help me handle these deceptions better next time, because there’s always going to be a next time.', 'Why, I asked Ms. Konnikova, despite my years of experience untangling half-truths and spotting deception in my classroom, am I still so terrible at it? And while we are on the topic of kids and deception, why am I even worse at spotting the con when the artist in question is my own child?', 'First of all, Ms. Konnikova reassured me, all kids lie. It’s a part of growing up, testing limits and adjusting to social expectations and norms. “Kids are incredible con artists. They lie, they lie often, they lie knowingly, and they lie willingly in order to get something they want,” she wrote in an email.', 'To prove her point, Ms. Konnikova directed me to a passage in “The Confidence Game” in which she describes a study on children and deceit. Researchers put children in a room with a toy and instructed them not to look at it. They then recorded the children’s actions after the adult left the room. A majority of 3-year-olds in the study looked at the toy and, when asked whether they looked, lied about it. When researchers performed the same exercise with older children, the results were even more dramatic. Every single 5-year-old in the study looked at the toy, and every single child lied about it.', 'We lie as children, and we continue to lie as adults. In “The Confidence Game,” Ms. Konnikova writes, “we lie, on average, three times during a routine 10-minute conversation with a stranger or casual acquaintance.” Lies lubricate our daily social interactions and cushion the sharp edges of difficult conversations.', 'My students are not bad people because they lie, and they are not acting out of malice, Ms. Konnikova reassured me. Further, the fact that I have been duped so many times does not mean I am stupid or naïve, or falling down on the job of teaching character; it means I’m human. Just as it’s human nature to lie, it’s also human nature to fall for those lies, Ms. Konnikova explains in “The Confidence Game.” “We are so bad at spotting deception because it’s better for us to be more trusting. Trust, and not adeptness at spotting deception, is the more evolutionary beneficial path,” she writes. People who are trusting in nature tend to be happier and healthier, and contrary to what we may believe about the types of people who are easily conned, the more intelligent you are, the more likely you are to trust others.', 'In order to spot and call out the cons, Ms. Konnikova advised, I should act more like a journalist than a teacher. I should, in her words, “trust, but verify.” Gather the facts as best I can, give everyone (including myself) permission to be imperfect, and make the best of the situation by turning what could be heated conflict and dissolution of trust into a shared learning experience. Talk about how loss of trust can harm relationships, and use the opportunity to show the child that my primary goal is to teach, not to punish.', 'Recognizing and talking about dishonesty, while teaching children how to do better next time, is our best hope for raising adults who remain on the right side of the line between normal and harmless white lies and the malicious deceptions of true con artists.', 'Loading...', 'Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail.', 'Want to know more about Motherlode?']


3 Borrowers Win Case on Eligibility for Public Service Loan Forgiveness
['Kate Voigt and two other student-loan borrowers scored a legal victory against the Education Department on Friday.', 'Three student loan borrowers scored a major victory against the Department of Education on Friday, when a federal judge laid the groundwork for a reversal of the department’s determination that their employers were not eligible for the government’s public service loan forgiveness program.', 'Borrowers seeking to get their loans forgiven under the public service loan forgiveness program must have the right type of federal loan, make 120 on-time payments, enroll in the correct category of repayment plans and work for an eligible public-service employer.', 'The legal dispute, which involved four public-interest lawyers who themselves filed suit, was over what kind of employer is eligible.', 'In the case of the borrowers who filed suit, the department had indicated in a variety of ways (including through letters approving the borrowers’ forms) that the plaintiffs were working for eligible employers. Then, however, the department changed its mind and made its decision retroactive, rendering years of payments ineligible toward the 120-month count.', 'When that happened, it threw the plaintiffs’ personal finances into chaos. Often, people who qualify for entry into the 120-month loan forgiveness pipeline are in income-based repayment plans that don’t even cover all the interest that accrues each month. As a result, their balances grow over time instead of shrink. Borrowers, though, tend to put their heads down and live with it, knowing that loan forgiveness (which does not come with any income tax liability in this instance) is on the horizon.', 'In defending itself, the Education Department had argued that a letter stating that an employer was eligible, in response to the submission of an individual’s certification form, “does not reflect a final agency action on the borrower’s qualifications” for loan forgiveness.', 'In practice, teachers, police officers and other government workers and employees of nonprofit 501(c)3 organizations did not have to worry, since their eligibility was clear in the law. But employees of other types of nonprofit groups were not always certain about the status of their employers.', 'In this case, the judge began by plainly stating his disagreement with the department’s assertion that the certification response letters to borrowers were not definitive. “The language of the denial letters demonstrates that they marked the department’s final determination,” he wrote, pointing to “definitive” and “unambiguous” language.', 'As a result of the ruling, the three borrowers who won the case and all others like them now have grounds to petition the Education Department to have their eligibility reinstated. The department’s press office did not immediately respond to a request for comment.', 'There was a fourth plaintiff, Jamie Rudert, and he did not get a favorable ruling. His issue involved a different standard: whether his work for paralyzed veterans was at an organization that provides services “outright” and whether that ought to matter. The judge ruled that the “outright standard” was an appropriate reading of the program’s rules and that its use in this instance had not represented any actual policy change.', 'Chong Park, a lawyer at Ropes & Gray who represented the plaintiffs, said in an interview that he did not agree with the judge’s ruling in the fourth case. He and that client would consider their next steps in the coming days.', 'They Thought They Qualified for Student Loan Forgiveness. Years Later, the Government Changes Its Mind.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Wealth Matters: Parking an Investment in Your Garage
['Todd Morici in his 1954 Ferrari 750 Monza. Like other collectors, he is hooked on the beauty of Ferraris and their investment potential.', 'Todd Morici bought his first collectible car in 1984, a four-year-old Ferrari Berlinetta Boxer. He was 24 and drove it as often as he could, racking up 10,000 miles before he sold it. But he realized something else about Ferrari’s appeal.', 'By that point, Mr. Morici was hooked on two things: the beauty of Ferraris and their investment potential.', 'That knowledge converged in a windfall in 2010 when he sold a 1959 Ferrari 250 GT long wheelbase California Spider for $7.2 million. He’d paid $900,000 for it seven years earlier. That same model sold in 2016 for $18 million, he said.', 'Collectible cars are illiquid assets, those that are not easy to sell, like a stock or a bond. The market can fluctuate wildly, and distressed investors can wind up selling at a loss.', 'But that risk doesn’t stop collectors. For some, the cars remind them of a mythical vehicle they could not have when they were young. For others, they are simply more fun to own than stocks and bonds.', 'Regardless, collectible cars are going to retain their value better than a new car, which depreciates as soon as it is driven off the lot.', 'Regular maintenance, recorded for a future buyer, is a must, and service calls can be costly, like the ones for Ferraris that require the car’s engine to be removed. They can cost more than $20,000 per visit.', 'Mr. Morici’s 1954 Ferrari 750 Monza. Collectible cars retain their value better than a new car, which depreciates as soon as it is driven off the lot.', 'Whether cars are a great investment in a strong economy isn’t apparent. Their value rose more than 300 percent from 2008 to 2015, according to the Historic Automobile Group International. By comparison, the S&P 500 rose 40 percent in that same period. But over the past four years, they have risen a comparatively modest 85 percent, with Ferrari leading that growth, while the S&P 500 rose 22 percent.', 'The response in the last recession surprised even the experts, said David Gooding, president of Gooding & Company, a leading auto auction house.', 'After recent auctions in Pebble Beach, Calif., and Scottsdale, Ariz., experts said cars were fairly valued, even though that meant some cars, even Ferraris, sold for less than they would have a few years ago. But both Mr. Gooding and Mr. Carpenter said that sellers were going to have to be realistic about a car’s price and quality.', 'Keeping a car in top shape is not an inexpensive proposition.', 'Vinnie Pacifico, who made his money in food service, said he cherished his 1963 Corvette with a split window and enjoyed driving it. But to satiate his appetite for speed, he prefers driving a 2017 Porsche 911 Turbo Carrera.', 'Yet the Porsche, which he leases, cost all in about $250,000. His Corvette, which he bought in the mid-1980s for around $12,000, is worth just $130,000 by his reckoning, and is far cheaper to maintain.', 'Benjamin Clymer, who owns the online watch retailer Hodinkee, has seven classic cars, which he keeps in Westchester County, a more affordable garage than any near his Manhattan home. His collection includes Alfa Romeos, Porsches and a 1964 Lancia Flaminia Zagato, a car once considered the Rolls-Royce of Italy.', 'Some of the cars in Mr. Morici’s collection. Collectible cars are illiquid assets, those that are not easy to sell, like a stock or a bond.', 'But he said he was lucky if he got a chance to visit them twice a month, and that leaves him little time to drive all of them. He said collectors needed to consider the cost of maintenance. A few years ago, he sold a 1999 Ferrari 456 for $115,000, which was $30,000 more than he paid for it. Yet he does not consider it a good investment because the car was due for a $22,000 service, which he would have had to pay had he kept it.', 'His bigger concern is that his taste tends toward cars that are not sought after by his peers, making them harder to maintain and eventually sell.', 'Mr. Gooding said such generational tastes needed to be considered, along with the continued existence of the manufacturer. “There’s just a wider mass of people that relate to brands like Porsche than to a defunct brand,” he said.', 'With a price like that, many collectors might worry about overpaying. Mr. Gooding said he analyzed past catalogs and found that many of the cars that sold for record prices at the time had been some of the best investments for collectors. He attributes that to those cars having something different or even unique about them.', 'A more common risk is having to sell too quickly. Rubin Pikus, chief executive of Milbrook Properties, has a collection of seven cars, including a Corvette, a Rolls-Royce, a Bentley and a Ferrari F12 that once belonged to the former Yankees catcher Jorge Posada.', 'He estimates that he has bought and sold more than 100 cars in his life. But he remembers the one car that he lost money on: a 1978 Aston Martin flip-tail coupe that was among a few imported to the United States. He paid $325,000 and took it to his home in West Palm Beach, Fla.', 'But the summer heat and humidity clogged up the car’s carburetor, and the car had trouble starting if left out in the sun. So he decided to sell it back to the dealer — who offered him $50,000 less.', 'But he still sees investment potential. He and his son-in-law bought a 1992 Ferrari Testarossa, which sits on a lift in a private garage and is driven once a month. They paid $350,000 for it last year and expect it will be worth $500,000 in five years. One thing is for certain: It won’t have many more miles on it by then.', 'You Want to Buy Art. Is It About Love or Money?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Money: A Teacher’s Student Loans Were Forgiven. Then FedLoan Wrecked His Credit.
['A Teacher’s Student Loans Were Forgiven. Then FedLoan Wrecked His Credit.', 'A Teacher’s Student Loans Were Forgiven. Then FedLoan Wrecked His Credit.', 'Jed Shafer thought his work navigating the troubled public service loan forgiveness program was finished. He found out he was wrong when Lowe’s turned him away at the register.', 'He had spent years struggling to get the loan forgiveness that federal law provides for public servants like him, and those checks from the United States Treasury covered what he’d paid beyond his obligation. His loan balance was officially zero.', 'But he’s not done, not by a long shot.', 'Earlier this month, he went into Lowe’s to buy a new refrigerator and applied for a store credit card to get a 10 percent discount. He was turned down on the spot.', 'FedLoan, the loan servicer for public servants in the forgiveness program, had given him a little parting gift: a delinquency report to the scorekeepers at Equifax, Experian and TransUnion that effectively wrecked his credit.', 'Mr. Shafer was not late with his payments, though the three bureaus had him marked 120 to 180 days tardy. In fact, he had made extra payments in a bend-over-backward effort to make himself bulletproof in the eyes of the federal government and its agents. It didn’t work.', 'We should not be the least bit surprised, either. The public service loan forgiveness program is an administrative debacle, as I’ve chronicled for a couple of years now — just by following Mr. Shafer, who has devoted his career to teaching at-risk teens in Eugene, Ore.', 'When Mr. Shafer went to Lowe’s, he was doing exactly what federal policymakers might hope. After more than a decade repaying his debts, he was taking that newly available cash and funneling it into the American economy. Or at least he was trying to.', 'Those store cards are usually pretty easy to get, so Mr. Shafer’s denial was disconcerting. After a bit of investigation, he found that his credit scores had fallen 125 to 150 points, depending on which bureau he asked.', 'I scoured his credit reports and found that FedLoan had marked him months past due on his loan, even though he had made on-time monthly payments through his bank’s autopay service until the day his loan statement stated that he had zero dollars due. The FedLoan delinquency notices were the only thing in the credit reports that could explain the decline in his scores and the rejection at Lowe’s.', 'Mr. Shafer called FedLoan’s customer service line to try to get an explanation. The inspector general report listed FedLoan’s parent organization as the worst performer among nine servicers in a survey of customer-service calls in April and May of 2017, so perhaps he should not have expected much in the way of assistance.', 'Sure enough, after minutes of what sounded like head-scratching, the representative Mr. Shafer spoke with said that the situation made no sense to him, either. His solution was to tell Mr. Shafer to send his credit reports to a FedLoan post office box in Harrisburg, Pa., for follow-up. And no, he said, there was no one Mr. Shafer could talk to about it on the phone.', 'But asking someone whose credit you’ve trashed to send the matter away to a post office box for consideration is not white-glove service. It’s not even boxing-glove service. It’s an open hand across the face.', 'Mr. Shafer didn’t want to wait around for FedLoan’s envelope-rippers, so I took the matter to Keith New, P.H.E.A.A.’s spokesman. At first, he said that the organization could not find any “negative reporting action” on Mr. Shafer’s account.', 'That same day, Mr. Shafer got a note from Stephanie Galloway, a FedLoan vice president. “We wish to express our sincerest apologies and regret any inconvenience this may have caused you,” it said.', 'Just to be certain, we checked his credit again a few hours after I heard from Mr. New, with Mr. Shafer and his wife paying the fee themselves to do so. Indeed, the problem was fixed and his FICO credit scores — which are what most lenders look at when checking up on individuals — were very good once more.', "So how exactly did this error happen, and will it happen to others? The origin is not clear, but Mr. New said it would not happen again. “We've confirmed that this was indeed an isolated instance and have addressed the root cause within the process so no other borrower should experience any negative issues,” he said in an email.", 'But before we go, let us lament, once again, the fact that this sort of warning and intervention is necessary at all. Public service loan forgiveness was a program with bipartisan backing. Surely, we can all agree that our teachers and nurses and firefighters should not have to put up with so much to get what they earned.', 'Goodbye, Student Debt. Hello, Wrecked Credit.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Money Adviser: Those Credit Card Bonuses May Be Taxable
['Have you gotten a bonus from your credit card company for successfully referring friends or family for new cards? You may owe taxes on that bonus.', 'People who thought they were getting a perk with no strings attached are getting 1099 tax forms from some major card brands, including Chase, American Express and Discover.', 'It’s been unwelcome news. “It’s one of those things where you don’t really think ahead about the tax implications,” said Rebecca Hawes, legislative counsel to the National Association of Enrolled Agents, a professional group for federally certified tax experts.', 'The forms known as 1099s are used to report various types of nonwage earnings, including miscellaneous income. In general, if a business pays you at least $600, it must report the payments to you — and to the Internal Revenue Service — using Form 1099.', 'Whether rewards or bonuses are taxable depends on whether they are tied to spending on the card, tax experts say. If you get cash back or rewards from a credit card in exchange for buying things with the card, the Internal Revenue Service generally doesn’t consider the rewards taxable, said Donald Zidik, a certified public accountant at Waldron H. Rand & Company, near Boston.', 'If, for instance, you earn 2 percent cash back for the amount you spend, or earn 5,000 bonus points or frequent flier miles if you spend a certain amount of money within three months of opening the card account, that’s not taxable. “It’s considered more of a rebate or discount,” Mr. Zidik said.', 'But if you earn a reward or bonus for simply opening an account — or referring a friend who opens a new account — that amount is considered to be taxable. Hence, the tax forms some consumers are receiving.', 'American Express has sent 1099-MISC forms to cardholders, with copies to the I.R.S., if they earned $600 or more in total value for referral bonuses in 2018, said a spokeswoman, Heather Norton. She said the company discloses in the terms of its offer that the value of a referral bonus may be taxable income.', 'Mary Jane Rogers, a spokeswoman for Chase, says that issuing 1099-MISC forms isn’t new. The forms reflect payments for items like referral bonuses, which are given to customers who refer a friend to Chase, or a bonus for customers who sign up for paperless bank statements.', 'In Chase’s case, she said, the forms are likely getting attention from customers because the bank made errors in calculating the amounts on a “few thousand” forms and had to reissue them.', 'Assigning a cash value to rewards points or frequent flier miles is a bit of a gray area since the value of points can vary depending on how the cardholder redeems them. But a value of 1 cent per point is common, said Brian Riley, director of the credit advisory service at Mercator Advisory Group. At a penny a point, 500 points would equal $5.', 'At Discover, card holders who earned $600 or more on “nontransactional” rewards are sent 1099-MISC tax forms, said a spokesman, Derek Cuculich. Those include rewards for referring a friend, a one-time cash back “match” bonus given to new cardholders and the “good grades” program, which offers statement credits of $20 a year to holders of its student card if they maintain a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher.', 'There haven’t been any recent public edicts from the I.R.S. on the topic, Mr. Zidik said. But banks may be influenced by a 2014 ruling by the United States Tax Court, which held that the value of an airline ticket bought with frequent flier miles that were received as a premium, in exchange for opening a bank account, must be included as income.', 'Do I have to report card bonuses as income if I don’t receive a Form 1099?', 'You should. While the card company must send out the form for payments to an individual that total $600 or more, a bonus is considered income even if it’s below that threshold, Mr. Zidik said. “Any type of income, no matter how small, has to be reported,” he said.', 'How much you actually pay in taxes on the amount, however, depends on your overall income and tax bracket, Ms. Hawes said.', 'What if I receive a corrected 1099 form after filing my tax return?', 'In general, if people get a corrected 1099-MISC, they should contact their tax professional because they may need to file an amended return, Mr. Zidik said.', 'Does this make referring friends to get a bonus more hassle than it’s worth?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Sketch Guy: Busy Is Not a Badge of Honor. Try Doing Nothing for a While.
['Busy Is Not a Badge of Honor. Try Doing Nothing for a While.', 'Busy Is Not a Badge of Honor. Try Doing Nothing for a While.', 'We can’t track knowledge work the way we did factory work.', 'Production-line metrics aren’t useful for a lot of the work that requires only your mind. The language is wrong. The whole paradigm is wrong. Knowledge work is much more about the quality of the thinking than the quantity of the output.', 'Professional runners have to rest their leg muscles. Carpenters have to rest the muscles in their hands. If the primary muscle you use to do your job is your brain, you need to learn how to rest it, too. For the knowledge worker, that means large chunks of unstructured time spent doing nothing.', 'That’s right, nothing. Not reading Twitter, listening to a podcast or texting with your customers. I’m talking about the kind of nothing where the brain finally gets to relax. Sitting still, taking a nap, riding a bike. That kind of nothing.', 'The problem with this completely reasonable idea is that we live in an unreasonable world. People wear “busy” like a badge of honor. It almost feels like a cult.', 'Here’s a secret: Some of the most successful creative workers I know appear way more lazy than busy, at least at first glance. Meanwhile, I have other busy friends who are getting burned out from the 24/7 grind.', 'We need to rethink the paradigm.', 'For knowledge workers, large chunks of unstructured time are not rewards for doing good work — they’re prerequisites for it.', 'And after you do, don’t go post about it on Twitter. Step outside, lie down in the grass and look at the clouds. And don’t get up until you’re good and ready.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


A Man in Florida Mistakenly Received a $980,000 Tax Refund, and Officials Say He Tried to Keep It
['U.S.', 'U.S.', 'The Internal Revenue Service in Washington. The agency mistakenly sent a man in Florida a refund of $980,000 because he filed an inaccurate tax return, a complaint said.', 'How?', 'He filed his taxes.', 'The man, 29-year-old Ramon C. Blanchett, filed a 2016 income tax return in February 2017 that included a W-2 from Bridges Nursing and Rehabilitation in Tampa, Fla., showing $17,098 in wages and $1 million of federal income tax withholding, according to a forfeiture complaint filed last month by the United States government in federal court in Tampa, Fla.', 'Mr. Blanchett submitted a 1040 form that also said $1 million in taxes had been withheld, and that led the Internal Revenue Service to issue a refund for $980,000, according to the complaint.', 'And he kept the money, the complaint said — until the I.R.S. found out about the error.', 'The complaint did not mention how the W2 came to include incorrect information. Representatives for Bridges Nursing and Rehabilitation did not respond to a request for comment this week.', 'Mr. Blanchett also submitted another W2, which was accurate, showing $1,399 in income from Sizzling Platter, a restaurant in Murray, Utah, and no withholding, the complaint said.', 'Robert Marvin, a spokesman for the I.R.S., declined to answer questions about the case, citing a section of the Internal Revenue Code that prohibits the I.R.S. from commenting on a specific taxpayer’s situation, and he did not immediately respond to queries about the systems in place to detect fraud on Friday.', 'Mr. Blanchett could not be reached for comment on Friday, and it was unclear whether he had retained a lawyer.', 'The I.R.S.’s refund processing systems should have flagged a refund this large, said Chuck Pine, who used to be the third-ranking criminal enforcement officer at the agency and now oversees the risk and regulatory advisory practice at BDO USA, a global assurance, tax and financial advisory services firm.', 'Mr. Blanchett has not been charged in federal court, Amy H. Filjones, a spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office in Tampa, Fla., said on Friday. A date for the next hearing has not been set, said a spokesman at the United States attorney’s office.', 'According to court records, Mr. Blanchett pleaded guilty in 2016 to possession of drug paraphernalia and resisting an officer without violence, both misdemeanors of the first degree. In 2014, he was charged with possession of marijuana, also a first-degree misdemeanor, but the judge withheld adjudication, so he was not convicted of a crime.', 'SunTrust Bank, where Mr. Blanchett initially deposited the funds, suspected fraud and initially froze the funds, the court documents said, but later returned them to Mr. Blanchett via cashier’s check. He then put the money into an account at Grow Financial, telling the bank that the money came from the estate of his deceased father, the documents said.', 'Mr. Blanchett shifted the money around, transferring it among different bank accounts within Grow Financial, the complaint said, eventually using some of it to purchase a silver Lexus last August. On Friday, a spokeswoman for SunTrust and a spokesman for Grow Financial declined to comment.', 'The complaint didn’t specify when the I.R.S. first learned about the inaccurate refund check. But in August, Grow Financial sent the I.R.S. the funds in Mr. Blanchett’s account in accordance with a federal seizure warrant, the complaint said. The I.R.S. also seized the Lexus, and the government is seeking a car insurance premium of about $809 that was refunded to Mr. Blanchett when he no longer had possession of the Lexus.', 'Susan Beachy and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Watch Out. Tax Season Is Even More Stressful Than Usual.
['Watch Out. Tax Season Is Even More Stressful Than Usual.', 'Watch Out. Tax Season Is Even More Stressful Than Usual.', 'With millions of people filing tax returns under a new tax law and after a long government shutdown, this is a challenging year. We offer survival tips and extensive coverage.', 'Take a deep breath, a drink, whatever calms you: It’s tax season.', 'If you have already filed your return and received a satisfying refund, congratulations! You are a lucky person, because many people are having a hard time this year.', 'Oddly, much of the pain comes from a shift that might seem pleasant: sweeping changes that, while providing a windfall for the rich, still amount to a tax cut for most Americans. But, combined with the longest government shutdown in history, the short-term effects of these changes have been surprisingly disruptive.', 'Early returns indicate that fewer people than usual have been getting the refunds they expected. That has created an excruciating spectacle: Many people who paid less in taxes every week are discovering that they owe money to the Internal Revenue Service. On top of that, residents of states like New York, New Jersey and California face a new cap on federal deductions for state and local taxes, and won’t know whether their federal tax bill has gone up until they have slogged through their returns. What’s more, many tax preparers aren’t up to speed on all of the new breaks and burdens.', 'Good luck! It may be a rougher ride than usual. We can’t eliminate glitches, fatten your refund or make tax-filing a total pleasure. But we have covered the tax mayhem extensively, and prepared articles and tax software reviews, all in the hope that with our help, the ordeal will be easier and, at the very least, more comprehensible.', 'The most important changes to the tax code in decades have taken effect — and filers are confused. Plenty of people who counted on fat tax refunds are disconcerted when they learn that they are not getting them. For some thorny issues, especially those concerning small businesses, professional tax preparers are perplexed as well. We asked certified public accountants and other tax-prep pros to do their best and give taxpayers some clear answers.', 'If you’re preparing your own tax return, you may benefit from expert help conveyed by top-notch tax software. The Wirecutter, a division of The New York Times Company that rigorously tests products, surveyed the offerings for this season. The reviewers made several recommendations, depending on factors like whether you run your own business and whether your financial situation is complex or fairly simple. If it’s very simple, they say, try H&R Block Free.', 'Phones are fabulous for playing games and reading news apps. But are they effective at filing tax returns? Millions of people think so. Our reporter Tara Siegel Bernard gave phone-filing a test run, but she wasn’t impressed. She found the experience unpleasant, in parts, and had unanswered questions about how to fill out a model return. For her own family’s taxes, she will rely on a human accountant again this year.', 'The wholesale overhaul of the tax law that is in place for people filing their returns would, on its own, have required the I.R.S. and tax experts to make many adjustments and give a great deal of new guidance this year. The partial government shutdown slowed the process considerably. And the early returns are including a larger number of unpleasant surprises for taxpayers — who owe money when they expected to receive refunds — than was the case in the past.', 'Only a year after sweeping changes took place, proposals to revamp the tax code — yet again — are rampant. From the Democratic side come calls for a more progressive system, requiring wealthy people to pay more, reversing the rise in income inequality that has been underway. Republicans, on the other hand, want to make the current tax rates — which are set to expire at the end of 2025 — permanent. The division of power in place in Washington means that you shouldn’t count on big changes this year. But the heated debates in Congress and on the 2020 campaign trail will give clues about legislation to come.', 'The 2017 tax bill provides a 20 percent deduction for “qualified business income,” which is a great boon for those who can get it. But who, exactly, qualifies? The rules are arcane, and I.R.S. guidance has been changing. Health, law, financial services, entertainment and consulting businesses don’t qualify, for example, but architecture and engineering do. In some cases, eligibility hinges on small details. Read on for some pointers.', 'The law offers help for wealthy investors and needy neighborhoods. Can it do both?', 'By enabling affluent investors to postpone paying the tax man, new opportunity zone funds are starting to attract substantial sums. The funds are a tax break that was included in the 2017 tax law as a way of drawing money into distressed communities.', 'The idea is that investors get tax breaks, while the neighborhoods get new businesses and upgraded apartment buildings, shops and the like. But the areas that have been designated as distressed are not always really needy. The vibrant Long Island City neighborhood where Amazon proposed placing its campus, a plan it has abandoned, was designated an opportunity zone, for example. And even when neighborhoods are truly distressed, providing tax breaks for the rich may be an awkward way of redeveloping them.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


your taxes 2019: ‘Opportunity Zones’ Offer Tax Breaks and, Maybe, Help for Communities
['By enabling investors to postpone paying the tax man, new funds may draw money into distressed communities. But succeeding at both may be challenging.', 'The funds are spurring interest among investors as a way of deferring and reducing capital gains. But whether they will substantially help needy communities is another question.', 'Critics say that too often, the zones target the wrong districts.', 'But in financial markets, opportunity funds are creating a buzz. “It’s arguably the most significant tax break in decades,” said Ben Miller, co-founder and chief executive of Fundrise, a real estate crowdfunding site that is sponsoring an opportunity fund.', 'The opportunity funds are the vehicles for investing in these zones. The idea is that investors get federal tax breaks, while the neighborhoods get new businesses and upgraded properties, like apartment buildings, retail shops and hotels.', 'But the rules are complex, and the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service didn’t clarify many details until October; more guidance is still expected. The recent government shutdown didn’t help.', 'That said, opportunity funds are beginning to gain steam. The main questions for investors — such as what kind of investment gains are eligible for investment in an opportunity fund — generally have been answered, Mr. Miller said.', 'Opportunity funds let investors postpone federal taxes on recent capital gains until the end of 2026; they can also reduce the taxable portion of those gains by as much as 15 percent, after seven years. Further, investors can eliminate taxes on additional gains from investing in the fund itself, if they hold the investment for 10 years.', 'Just the gains on an investment — rather than the entire proceeds of a sale — must be reinvested in the opportunity fund. That’s “highly unusual” and one reason opportunity funds may appear attractive, said Jeffrey Levine, chief executive of BluePrint Wealth Alliance.', 'Say you sold stock for $500,000, and $300,000 of it was a gain. Just $300,000 must be rolled into the opportunity fund and the remaining $200,000 can be used as the seller wishes, according to an example provided by Tim Steffen, director of advanced planning at Baird Wealth Solutions Group, part of Robert W. Baird & Company.', 'By putting money in the fund, investors not only delay having to pay tax, but are also eligible for a partial exclusion of the tax on the reinvested gains. If you remain in the fund for five years, you will reduce the taxable gain by 10 percent; if you hold it an additional two years, for seven total, you will further reduce the taxable gain by another 5 percent.', 'So, continuing with Baird’s example of the $300,000 reinvested gain, you would be taxed on $270,000 after five years, and on $255,000 after seven, assuming you made the investment in time to meet the various thresholds.', 'In addition, any profit you earn on your investment in the new fund is tax free, if you remain invested for 10 years. However, you must pay taxes on the initial gain that you rolled into the fund no later than Dec. 31, 2026, regardless of whether you remain invested in the fund, said Hal Zemel, a tax partner with the New York accounting and advisory firm Berdon.', 'The funds are generally not for small-time investors. Minimum investments are hefty — often at least $50,000 to $100,000 and, in some cases, much higher.', 'While the tax benefits are enticing, investors should consider that property development has its own risks, and zones targeted by the new funds are, by definition, intended to be in areas where development generally hasn’t occurred on its own.', 'Because the funds are so new, it’s uncertain how profitable they are going to be — and much may depend on the developers. “Picking a manager is critically important,” said David Coelho, chief investment officer for opportunity zone strategies at Bridge Investment Group, a real estate investment firm.', 'Mr. Levine said he was cautious about recommending opportunity funds to clients. “The last thing you want to do is take your gain, get blinded by a tax benefit, and lose your money,” he said.', 'It’s likely, he said, that local developers who already had projects underway in the designated zones will benefit most.', 'State governors naturally wanted to designate opportunity zones in areas most in need of capital, but some neighborhoods may be too depressed to appeal to investors, said Avy Stein, co-founder of Cresset Wealth Advisors, which is a partner in an opportunity fund. He said he considered many of the zones in Illinois to be particularly challenging for investors, while areas of California and the Pacific Northwest, along with Houston, Nashville, Omaha, New York and Washington, D.C., were more promising.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Wealth Matters: You Want to Buy Art. Is It About Love or Money?
['You Want to Buy Art. Is It About Love or Money?', 'You Want to Buy Art. Is It About Love or Money?', 'Hilary Geary Ross, an art collector and the wife of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, owns 36 works by Magritte valued at more than $100 million.', 'The value of a Picasso or a Ferrari typically rises in a strong economy, as do shares in a consumer staple like Procter & Gamble.', 'But when the economy sours, those shares may be easier than the other possessions to shed. As wealthy collectors pull back on extravagances, investors could get stuck holding an asset they might have to unload at a loss.', 'This time, I will look at five nontraditional asset classes that are popular with wealthy investors and with an eye on what to expect in a market downturn. Art is the first of five valuable but illiquid assets I plan to examine in the coming weeks. The others are cars, collectibles like wine and jewelry, private equity and real estate.', 'Collecting fine art is as much about beauty and desirability as it about the investment value. Given how strong the art market has been over the past few years, many collectors may not be prepared if the economy slows and the appetite for art cools.', 'Roy Sebag, a hedge fund analyst turned entrepreneur, has a collection that includes a drawing by Pablo Picasso and works by 17th-century Dutch masters. He said he took an objective view of his collection’s value: looking at both the art’s intrinsic value — how an artist’s work has appreciated — and its social currency.', 'By his analysis, avoiding emerging artists and buying works of a well-known artist like Picasso, despite having to pay millions of dollars to do so, is like buying a hedge against recession. “We know trends change quickly,” he said.', 'Roy Sebag said buying the work of established artists over emerging ones was like buying a hedge against recession.', 'Such beliefs could be tested in the next few years.', 'To guard against seeing the value of an art collection plummet, dealers advise prudence and, not surprisingly, connoisseurship.', 'If there is a lesson to be drawn from the recession, it is that buyers become more discerning in both the artists they favor and the price they will pay, said B. J. Topol, co-president of Topol Childs Art Advisory, which works on behalf of wealthy clients.', 'Ms. Topol said she saw signs of a slowdown in the art market at the Art Basel international art fair in Miami Beach in December. Art wasn’t being snapped up in the first few minutes. Instead, buyers had a chance to digest what they were seeing and negotiate on price.', 'Regardless of the climate, she advises not to buy on trends, yet she stops short of the adage to buy what you love. That could be financially disastrous.', 'Other collectors amass idiosyncratic collections whose value is greater together than apart. Peeling off several pieces in a downturn could depress the value of the collection as a whole, said Jean Pigozzi, a venture capitalist and art collector.', 'He said most of his pieces were not worth more than $100,000. Compare that with a work by Jean-Michel Basquiat, among the best-selling contemporary artists today. Mr. Pigozzi paid $1,000 for an artwork by Basquiat in 1982 and sold it last year for $3.2 million.', 'What he has is a unique collection that is often included in museum shows and sought after by auction houses. In its totality, it offers a window into sub-Saharan art of the past 30 years.', 'But Mr. Pigozzi knows selling it would be difficult without breaking it apart. Instead, he hopes to create a museum for it.', 'Approaching art as a pure investment can be difficult, because values of an artist’s work can change substantially in ways not associated with typical capital markets investing.', 'The German artist Carsten Höller directed the installation of works in Mr. Pigozzi’s collection in Grenoble, France, in 2011. Mr. Pigozzi said he hoped to create a museum to house his collection.', 'Lam, who died in 1982, was Cuban by birth and grouped with other Latin American artists at auctions, which drew a specific collector. But he was later seen as a modern artist, because he was a friend of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and other midcentury artists. As his artworks moved to more popular auctions, their value has doubled or tripled in a decade, Ms. Bscher said.', 'A similar shift happened with Picasso about 15 years ago, she said.', 'There are of course plenty of collectors with enough wealth to not really care about the short-term hit in value that the work on their walls may take. Hilary Geary Ross, an art collector and the wife of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, said she had always loved the work of René Magritte, the Belgian surrealist, and began buying his work when she and Mr. Ross married in 2004.', 'In distressed markets, social concerns may keep some people from working with auction houses. They can try private sales — as happened with the Ross’s acquisitions in 2008 — to sell something quietly.', 'But Ms. Topol said that even then, discerning collectors were going to drive a hard bargain. If that happens, she said, dealers and auction houses can step in to help. But her advice echoes that of others: Don’t sell art in a downturn unless other sources of liquidity have dried up.', 'Mr. Sebag said that the art he owned had increased in value far more than other investments he had made, but that he would sell it only if he ceased to enjoy it.', 'Having those other buckets to draw from is important — otherwise, you could be forced to sell a prized work for less than you would want to when the economy sours.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Money Adviser: Tempted by Holiday Car Sales? Be Ready for Higher Prices
['Looking for a new car over the holiday weekend? It may be challenging to find an affordable one, given rising prices and higher financing costs.', 'The long Presidents’ Day weekend is traditionally a popular time to buy a car, as dealers advertise sales, including deals on last year’s models still sitting on their lots.', 'Yet people who haven’t shopped for a car in several years may find that they will have to spend thousands more than they did the last time they bought a new vehicle, said Matt Jones, senior consumer advice editor with the auto website Edmunds.', 'Edmunds found that the average interest rate for new cars bought with financing reached 6.19 percent in January, the second-highest monthly reading in 10 years and up from 4.99 percent in January 2018 and 4.22 percent five years ago. Zero-percent-financing offers are less plentiful, reaching their lowest level since 2006, the site found.', 'The upshot? The average new car payment is about $551 a month, Edmunds found. Ouch.', 'One reason for the increase in the cost of cars is the “trickle-down” of luxury features — heated steering wheels, for instance — to lower-end models, said Jeff Bartlett, deputy editor specializing in cars at Consumer Reports. Also, the advent of features like automatic emergency braking, blind-spot warning and forward-collision warning can make cars much safer, he said, but also add to the price.', 'As cars become more expensive, consumers are financing them with longer-term loans to reduce monthly payments. A typical car loan used be three years, or four at the most. Now, five- and six-year terms are common.', 'While longer loans make payments affordable, they can put borrowers at risk for being “upside down” on the loan, or owing more than the car is worth, said Laura Adams, education analyst at DriversEd.com. That can be a problem if the owner wants to trade in the car for a new model during the term of the loan, or hits a financial bump and needs to sell the car quickly.', 'Because consumers often put their refunds toward the purchase of a car, that could result in “slightly lower demand for car shopping this spring,” according to Black Book, which provides car pricing guides for dealers and lenders.', 'That, in turn, could translate into more dealer incentives this spring to move cars off sales lots, Mr. Bartlett said.', 'Or, Mr. Goyal of Black Book said, it could just mean that shoppers will adjust their sights, and choose lower-cost new cars, or perhaps used autos, instead.', 'How can I get the best price on a new car?', 'If you’re ready to shop, do some homework online about models and prices before you visit a dealership to strengthen your negotiating position and reduce stress.', 'For a three-day weekend, Mr. Jones suggested narrowing your list to two or three models by Saturday. Test-drive the cars on Sunday, then buy — if you’re ready — on Monday.', 'Also, be flexible. Overall car quality has improved immensely, Mr. Jones said, so you may be able to find an affordable option by looking beyond your first choice. “Take off your blinders, if you’re loyal to one brand,” he said.', 'Do I have to use the dealer’s financing offer?', 'No. Consider getting preapproved for a loan at your own bank or credit union before visiting a dealership, Ms. Adams said. That way, you’ll know how much money you qualify for and you’ll have a base rate to compare with the dealership’s offer.', 'While buying is generally less expensive than leasing over all, shoppers may want to consider leasing in certain situations — if, say, a teenager is going to be driving the car. Leasing may make a car with the latest safety features more affordable, which is an acceptable trade-off if an inexperienced driver is behind the wheel, Mr. Bartlett said.', 'How can I judge if a car is affordable for me?', 'A good rule of thumb is “20-4-10”: Put at least 20 percent down in cash, stick to a four-year loan, and aim for a monthly payment that is no more than 10 percent of your gross income.', 'Mr. Bartlett’s general advice is to pay cash for a car, if you can. If financing is a must, a loan term of 48 months at the most, at a rate as near zero as possible, is the next best option. “Going beyond that is a bad investment on a depreciating asset,” he said.', 'Many shoppers, unfortunately, are dazzled by cars that cost more than they can afford, he said. So it’s a good idea to keep long-term financial goals in mind.', 'Used cars — particularly a reliable model that’s just a few years old — are often a smart compromise, Ms. Adams said. You’ll still get recent safety features but at a more affordable price. The average monthly payment on a used car, Edmunds found, is $407 a month.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Money: The Power of Raw, Honest Stories About Money
['Gaby Dunn, Chanel Reynolds and Vicki Robin were born decades apart. But their books about money have a common thread: Talk about it way, way more often.', 'From left, the financial advice authors Gaby Dunn, Chanel Reynolds and Vicki Robin in Seattle. They gathered this week to discuss how each of them learned about money the hard way.', 'SEATTLE — Personal finance professionals live too often in the realm of tools and tactics, optimization and automation. All too frequently, their advice — our advice — is utterly bloodless.', 'Gaby Dunn, Chanel Reynolds and Vicki Robin are not everyday personal finance practitioners. Ms. Dunn and Ms. Reynolds use vulgarities in the subtitles of their new money books, and Ms. Robin speaks openly of dropping acid, mental illness and the cancer scars on her stomach.', 'It’s why I got them around the same table: so the rest of us could listen in.', 'Vicki, the origin story of Chanel’s book is clear, as it all started when her husband was hit by a van while riding his bike here in Seattle. But how did you and Joe Dominguez, your late partner, come to write a book?', 'People started asking us, “Why don’t you have to work?” We were free, and they weren’t.', "Ms. Robin's personal finance book, published in 1992, was recently reissued.", 'So Joe started to explain to people the basic math: reducing spending, increasing savings. At first we taught a couple of friends, and it was 20 people in the basement of a church in Phoenix. Then, four years later, it was 400 people at a whack. We were written up in New Age Journal, and an editor found us.', 'Chanel, you first encountered Vicki’s book right after college, right?', 'Gaby, when did you first think you might be of service to people confused about money?', 'I started my podcast from a place of frustration and desperation and sadness. I knew I regretted a lot of the choices I made in my 20s — doing an unpaid internship, student loans.', "Ms. Reynolds's reckoning with her financial disorganization occurred at the foot of her husband's hospital bed.", 'It’s tempting to frame all of your work through the prism of demographics. Is it a mistake to think about the three of you generationally, as if you’re third-wave personal finance and Chanel is second and Vicki is first?', 'Sometimes when you read first-wave feminist texts, it’s like: “Here we go. This is going to be real bad.” Vicki’s book still feels relevant. I thought it might be yelling or myopic or — I don’t know what I thought it might be. But it takes into account social justice.', 'I call myself a millennial in a boomer body.', 'There was an acknowledgment that not everyone comes from an upper-middle-class upbringing.', 'Never type your name into Reddit! Don’t do it. Just don’t.', 'Well, I didn’t have you around to tell me. Some of it was snarky and negative.', 'Chanel, did you worry about how hard it might be to make the idea of preparing for death palatable to people of all ages?', 'I could be their mother, daughter, sister or co-worker. I could be them.', 'Hence the book. And its profane subtitle, which echoes the name of your website. In the book, you call out the “tighty whitey sanitized language” that gets in the way of raw honesty in this realm. But why excrement?', 'Gaby, you write about what you call the three buzzkill musketeers of getting better at money: shame, embarrassment and anxiety. Does talking bluntly about our money stories and failures dispense with those feelings, or put us at a bigger risk of experiencing them more acutely?', 'I’m still very bad with money. It’s about relatability. I was just going over my taxes with my accountant, and I was crying. But at least I’ve made crying about taxes my brand.', 'I record my accountant so I can listen back. I Google words, and I’m thinking really hard, and it’s just not coming, and I’m crying because I guess the conclusion is just that I’m an idiot.', 'You know that systems of oppression are set up against you in all these other ways, but this is the one you buy into in many ways. This is the one you listen to.', 'My comedy partner tells me that I talk to myself worse than I’d talk to a friend.', 'Chanel, you write about everything from sobbing and snot to drunk grief sex. But you don’t share the actual size of your life insurance payout or the amount you lost when you had to sell your house. Why not?', 'This stuff is hard whether you have none thousand dollars or five hundred thousand. People feel the same level of frustration, fragility and vulnerability. Someone dies or you lose someone, and it’s not a Lifetime movie. You don’t heroically grieve and then get hot and marry up.', 'So the part where I had to get daring and wanted to say too much and push myself to say it all was in being truthful about what really happens — what the hospital system looks like and then the death and dying system and the funeral system and then the banks and insurance. They are all set up like this crazy cattle chute system to confuse you and take your money. It’s devastating and takes forever, and it’s additional punishment when you’re already operating at half-mast.', 'Ms. Dunn opens her mail now. That was a big step.', 'For me, community is the currency that is the missing piece in all of this. We’re all cast out on our own, so our shame comes from not talking and our anxiety comes from not sharing. Building these bonds in my community on Whidbey Island has taken years. It’s about being a good actor. If I had to choose between money and loving relationships, at the level of enough, I’d choose loving relationships.', 'Medical debt. We’re a first-world country, and people should not be dying who couldn’t afford to see a doctor.', 'Can I add one? Instead of screaming at the weather, I want to dress for the rain. I want actual paid leave for destabilizing big life events, positive and negative.', 'No access to unsecured debt starting 10 years from now, and we nozzle it down so people can adapt before then.', 'Wait, you want to get rid of all credits cards? Just, gone?', 'Don’t let banks make that a profit center. When I was young, we saved up for things, she says in her older lady voice!', 'And in the meantime, your best tips for not being taken in by the personal finance industrial complex as it exists today?', 'I buy with cash.', 'I open my mail now, so that is pretty huge.', 'How long did that take you?', 'Oh, years. I used to think that if it was important, they’d find me. I was avoidant. I just know what is happening now.', 'I’ve restructured my financial life based on my priorities. I no longer feel financially vulnerable to external situations. I’m certainly not bomb proof, but I know what happens if something happens. For a single parent with a strong ability for catastrophic thinking, I sleep well at night.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


your taxes 2019: All Talk, Little Action: What to Expect on Tax Policy This Year
['Don’t count on big changes. But the heated debates in Congress and on the 2020 campaign trail give clues about legislation to come.', 'That sense of urgency lasted half a day.', 'On Feb. 7, newspapers reported that President Trump had said he was “open” to easing a tax law change that has been painful to many people in New York, New Jersey and California. That is the $10,000-per-household limit on federal deductions for state and local taxes, known as SALT, which was included in the 2017 tax overhaul.', 'Early that afternoon, however, Republicans closed the door on any such talks. “The Senate Finance Committee won’t be revisiting the SALT deduction reforms made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” a spokesman for the committee chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, said in a news release.', 'Expect a lot more where that came from. Newly empowered Democrats have lots of ideas for changing tax policy, including repealing some or all of the tax law, which mostly took effect last year. But in a divided Washington, with Republicans controlling the Senate and the White House, it’s unlikely that any of those changes will make their way into law.', 'For taxpayers trying to keep score at home, that portends a potentially dizzying year, one with much talk from Democrats and Republicans alike — and little action. But that doesn’t mean you can tune out the chatter entirely.', 'Today’s tax debates could be tomorrow’s policy changes, depending on how the next set of elections goes.', 'Adding to that vulnerability is the law’s relatively low popularity. After a brief high shortly after enactment, the tax-cut measure has failed to attract the support of a majority of Americans in polling.', 'You don’t need to spend a minute wondering if those plans might pass Congress this year: They won’t.', 'Only a few tax changes are even remotely likely to affect you this year. Congress could decide to extend some expired tax credits retroactively, such as deductions for private mortgage insurance and higher-education expenses, Ms. Kaeding said. Such a move would simply continue tax credits that some taxpayers had come to depend on, which otherwise would vanish for the 2018 tax year and beyond.', 'There’s a small chance that Democrats and Republicans might work together to slightly tweak tax advantages for retirement savings, but analysts see that as a long shot, at best.', 'Soak-the-rich talk seems likely to escalate as Democratic candidates jockey for advantage in the 2020 presidential primaries. Increased taxation of high-income, high-wealth people can be a means of funding new social spending programs like universal prekindergarten education. It can also be a direct way of reducing inequality and wealth in the United States.', 'The campaign language may suggest what you can expect if Democrats win in 2020: If you’re a millionaire or a billionaire, expect efforts to tax you more. If your income is lower, you might be in line for a break from the feds.', 'For six-figure earners in high-tax states, well, things could get complicated, whoever wins the next election.', 'Democrats will almost certainly rail against the SALT cap on the campaign trail. Repealing the cap would provide relief for people who are finding that their taxes have gone up because of it. But it would also amount to a tax cut for the rich and, as Mr. Grassley’s spokesman noted this month, that seems at odds with the economic goals of many Democrats.', 'In all of the passion of the political campaigns, it’s worth listening carefully for clues on how that tension might be resolved.', 'An earlier version of this article misstated the threshold above which Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts would impose a wealth tax. It is $50 million, not $50 billion.', 'Jim Tankersley covers economic and tax policy. Over more than a decade covering politics and economics in Washington, he has written extensively about the stagnation of the American middle class and the decline of economic opportunity.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


your taxes 2019: The 8 Most Common 2019 Tax Return Questions, Answered by Experts
['The most important changes to the tax code in decades have taken effect —\xa0and filers are confused. We asked CPAs and other tax-prep pros to simplify things.', 'This is equal-opportunity anxiety. Blue-state professionals feel micro-targeted by new limits on state and local tax deductions, while filers elsewhere can’t figure out why they’re no longer getting a fat refund, if the law was supposed to be so good for them.', 'We asked accountants across the country to tell us their clients’ most common queries. Here are some answers.', 'For many people living in high-tax states like New York, California, New Jersey and Connecticut, there’s one overriding reason their tax bills have risen: Their state and local tax deduction, known as SALT, will be capped at $10,000. This includes state and local income taxes, as well as real estate taxes.', 'New York City residents, for example, often have state and city taxes that total nearly 10 percent of their income, she added. So if your state and local taxes already exceed the $10,000 limit, you lose the ability to deduct any of your property taxes.', 'Her property-owning clients with incomes in the $200,000 to $400,000 range are feeling the most significant pinch. Though their tax rates have decreased, that usually does not make up for the loss of their largest itemized deductions.', 'More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.', 'In early 2018, the I.R.S. took its best shot at offering guidance to employers about how to change tax withholding from paychecks. In general, it suggested decreases, since the 2017 law was supposed to be a cut. That should have resulted in bigger paychecks for most people.', 'But if you were an employee receiving those checks, you may not have noticed the increase. If that was the case, you won’t be seeing the usual April refund: You’ve already gotten it, just parceled out into slightly higher 2018 paychecks.', 'Before breaking down what’s changed, let’s back up and explain the basics: Taxpayers are entitled to take a standard tax deduction amount, or they can itemize their deductions individually; they can deduct whichever amount is higher, resulting in a lower tax bill.', 'Under the previous law, families were able to claim a $4,050 exemption for each qualifying child, but that deduction has been eliminated. Instead, if you have children under the age of 17, you may qualify for the child tax credit, which was raised to $2,000 from $1,000 for each child. More people will qualify now that the credit begins to phase out at $400,000 in income for joint filers ($200,000 for individuals), according to Claudell Bradby, a certified public accountant with TurboTax Live. The law also introduced a $500 credit for other dependents, which could include elderly parents or children over the age of 17.', 'Far fewer people are expected to be snared by it because so many of the old tax breaks that set off the so-called A.M.T. have been eliminated or reduced. In addition, the minimum exemption level has increased to $109,400 for joint filers, up from $84,500; and to $70,300 for individual filers, up from $54,300. The exemption begins to phase out at $500,000 for single filers and $1 million for joint filers.', 'A number of employees’ business expenses that weren’t reimbursed by their employers — like classes and seminars — are no longer deductible.', 'Workers moving for a new job were once able to deduct related expenses. That has been wiped away, except for members of the military.', 'It depends, said Tyler Mickey, a tax senior manager at Moss Adams in Wenatchee, Wash.', 'Under the previous law, spouses paying alimony could deduct those payments on their returns, while the recipients had to include the income on theirs. That remains the case for divorce agreements finalized on or before Dec. 31, 2018 (unless a couple changes the agreement after then). Therefore it’s true for returns filed this year.', 'But for divorces completed in 2019 and later, alimony payments will no longer be deductible, and recipients will not have to include them on their returns, added Mr. Mickey, who is also a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ personal finance specialist committee.', 'There are specific rules you may need to follow. If you paid for a show and dinner on one bill, for example, it must be itemized — and the amount paid for meals must be clearly stated. If it’s not, she added, then no deduction is allowed.', 'The new tax laws allow some business owners — those who are set up as so-called “pass-through” companies — to deduct 20 percent of their qualified business income. Cue the rush to the tax professionals.', 'Micaela Saviano, a senior manager at Deloitte Tax in Chicago, said that, especially, if you hold an investment that is likely to increase in value, it may be better to hand it down to the next generation now. That way, the growth accrues to the younger person’s estate.', 'And paying the federal gift tax now may make sense. Otherwise, the estate may have to pay estate taxes later, using part of the estate itself.', 'Tara Siegel Bernard covers personal finance. Before joining The Times in 2008, she was deputy managing editor at FiLife, a personal finance website, and an editor at CNBC. She also worked at Dow Jones and contributed regularly to The Wall Street Journal.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Smaller Tax Refunds Surprise Those Expecting More Relief
['H&R Block is training its employees to be more empathetic this tax season, when some Americans will see their refunds unexpectedly reduced.', 'The tax preparers at H&R Block had to take a new class before their busy season started this year: empathy training.', 'They listened to a mock exchange between an employee and a customer whose refund would not just shrink but disappear. The fictitious client had received a $1,500 refund last year, but this year would owe $575.', 'The playacting was prescient. The tax overhaul that took effect last year promised relief, but now that returns are being filed, some people are baffled. They’re getting smaller refunds — or sometimes having to write a check — even though nothing in their situation seems to have changed.', 'The average refund among early filers was down 8.4 percent, according to the Internal Revenue Service. The smaller checks, in some cases, stem from the loss of certain deductions. For others, it’s because less money is being withheld from their paychecks. The I.R.S., in trying to more closely match the amount held out of paychecks with the amount that taxpayers will owe, changed its withholding tables.', 'The result is that taxpayers may be paying less over all but still getting a bill after filing their return. That has caught many people off guard.', 'The overhaul has been President Trump’s signature accomplishment. It lowered tax rates for businesses and individuals, and it provided a break to self-employed people and those with so-called pass-through businesses, where income passes through the business to the owner’s personal tax returns.', 'But it also eliminated or cut back some popular deductions, most notably capping the deduction for state and local taxes at $10,000 — a provision that drew significant criticism from residents of high-tax states. Although most people will see their tax burden decline, the Government Accountability Office expected about four million people to pay more.', 'On Monday, the Treasury Department pushed back against reports of smaller refunds, saying it was still early in the filing season. “Refunds are consistent with 2017 levels and down slightly from 2018 based on a small initial sample from only a few days of data,” the department wrote on Twitter.', 'And tax experts said some people who would receive larger refunds — those claiming the earned-income tax credit — aren’t getting their checks yet.', 'The confusion over the new rules underscores the harried nature of this year’s tax season. The I.R.S. is getting back up to speed after the shutdown, which began just as its workers were preparing for the arrival of returns. And some accountants are still going through training to understand all the changes.', 'Many tax professionals said they had tried to prepare their clients as best as they could by having them adjust the amount they have withheld from their checks.', 'Ms. Alt, 36, said she and her wife had not adjusted their withholdings, and believed that was the reason for the reversal from last year’s refund. The bill is big enough that she hasn’t filed her return yet.', 'Nancy Bay, a 65-year-old bookkeeper from Garrett, Ind., was disheartened to learn how the new rules would affect her and her husband, a truck driver. While they usually receive a refund of about $1,500, they will have to pay about $400 this year.', 'Changes to the amount that companies withhold from paychecks mean some people may have a lower tax burden but still face a bill once they file their returns.', 'Ms. Bay blamed the withholding issue, and the loss of her husband’s ability to deduct his business expenses, which are not reimbursed by the trucking company he works for. Even the larger standard deduction did not make up for it, Ms. Bay said.', 'The speed from bill to law and from law to how it works in practice has made for a steep learning curve.', 'Janet Lee Krochman, an accountant from Costa Mesa, Calif., said she was also still learning about how the rule worked.', 'As a result, tax pros in these states are suggesting running multiple sets of calculations. It may be worth sacrificing the larger federal standard deduction to itemize on the state level and get a bigger return there.', 'Despite the confusion, some accountants have had the pleasure of delivering good news. Conor Barnes, an accountant at Egan Tax & Books in New York, prepares returns for many renters who typically don’t have enough individual deductions to itemize their returns. Instead, those filers take the standard deduction, which has doubled.', 'She also works with a lot of freelance workers, including photographers, who didn’t realize they would receive a nice tax benefit from the new qualified business income deduction.', 'Jackson Hewitt, a tax preparer that caters to moderate-income clients, said it was seeing more filers with lower tax liabilities and higher refunds. Some were taking an immediate advance that would be paid back when their check arrived from the government.', 'Even some people who knew they would be on the hook for more come tax time have been unpleasantly surprised.', 'Robin Baker Williams, 44, and her husband expected a bigger tax bill because she was returning to the work force, taking a job as a high school history teacher. The Virginia couple got a $2,000 tax refund last year. But this time around, the loss of some deductions and lower withholdings from her husband’s checks meant they owe $3,000 on their federal return — a $5,000 swing.', 'Stacy Cowley contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Taxes 2019: Small Businesses Have a New Tax Break, but There Are Many ‘Ifs’
['The 2017 tax bill provides a 20 percent deduction for ‘qualified business income.’ But which small businesses are eligible?', 'The problem is that a centerpiece of the legislation is a write-off for “qualified business income,” but it’s unclear whether certain activities count. That is sowing confusion as the April deadline for filing the first returns under the law approaches.', 'It is available for many sole proprietorships, partnerships and pass-through entities, such as S corporations. Most small businesses are formed under one of these structures, and most are eligible for the deduction. But not all of them are.', 'More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.', 'First, the relatively simple part: Businesses generally can receive the full deduction if their owners are married and file jointly and their taxable income does not exceed $315,000, or half that amount for single filers. More than 90 percent of pass-through entities qualify for the deduction, said Mark Jaeger, director for tax development at TaxAct, a provider of tax filing software.', 'But it’s not just qualified business income that’s used to figure eligibility for the deduction; it’s also total taxable income. So if you make $250,000 in your business and your spouse makes $200,000 in a salaried job, the total income on your return is $450,000. In that case, you could lose the qualified business income deduction.', 'Not necessarily, though.', 'If you pay wages to employees, including yourself, you could be eligible to take a qualified business income deduction equal to 50 percent of those wages, even if your income exceeds the threshold. In any case, the deduction cannot be more than 20 percent of qualified business income.', 'If your head isn’t spinning yet, there is more: An alternative calculation allows real estate firms to claim a qualified business income deduction of 25 percent of wages and 2.5 percent of the amount invested in property. But that’s only available if the I.R.S. deems the enterprise an eligible business. The agency last month ruled that renting out property is a business for which the deduction applies, and is not just a passive investment, under certain circumstances. Separate books and bank accounts must be kept and 250 hours a year must be devoted to active management, the agency said.', 'There’s still more fine print. The deduction is out of bounds to anyone who has income above the threshold and runs what the law calls a “specified service trade or business.” That’s one whose main asset is the owners’ reputation and skill.', 'The law lists several examples, including health, law, financial services, entertainment and consulting. Those businesses don’t qualify for the deduction. But for some reason, architecture and engineering do.', 'In the batch of rules released last month, the I.R.S. acknowledged that some activities can go either way, such as the operation of a pharmacy. The question for pharmacies is whether owners are regarded as dispensing health care. The I.R.S. said it depended on the circumstances.', 'Mr. Shane highlighted some “interesting anomalies.” One is whether a business engages in consulting, which disqualifies it for the deduction. Providing training courses or related services qualifies for the deduction, but providing advice and counsel — which can be part of training — constitutes consulting, in the agency’s view. What a business puts on its invoices and how it has represented itself over the years will go a long way to determining how it’s regarded, he said.', 'For an entrepreneur like Paige Cornetet, the distinction might amount to considerable money. Her business, Millennial Guru, which she started a year and a half ago in Grand Rapids, Mich., provides workshops and one-on-one training to help companies manage younger employees better. She runs Millennial Guru as a sole proprietor.', 'Ms. Cornetet’s adviser, Greg Rosica, a partner in Ernst & Young’s private client services practice, said Millennial Guru is clearly an education business, adding that he is not worried that the I.R.S. will view it as a consultancy. In other words, he says, the business should be eligible for the deduction.', 'Mr. Shane encourages entrepreneurs to use a tax professional to help accomplish those same objectives and to navigate the law generally.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Taxes 2019: Filing Taxes on Your Phone? Insert Frustrated-Face Emoji Here
['Millions of people are expected to submit their returns via mobile platforms this year. I won’t be one of them.', 'For filing your taxes, this might or might not be the way to go.', 'A surprising number of people apparently think so. About eight million people used the TurboTax app to file their returns on mobile last year. Credit Karma said that 20 percent of its tax customers used their phones to file in 2018, and that nearly a third of them did so in less than an hour, which suggests they didn’t run into time-sucking trouble along the way.', 'Alas, I wasn’t one of them.', 'I’ve always entrusted taxes to my accountant, but when I was assigned to evaluate the process of doing one’s taxes by smartphone, I figured the software would be wizardly enough. My family’s situation isn’t that complicated: a couple of W-2s, a couple of kids, some miscellaneous income.', 'There are about 463 things I’d rather do than read I.R.S. Publication 463 to figure out whether mileage is a deductible expense, yet when I summoned help through the TurboTax app, an agent suggested that I should. Other apps also raised questions I couldn’t easily answer, and I even identified an error.', 'I sampled three mobile apps, from TurboTax, Credit Karma and H&R Block. All of them said I’d receive a refund of roughly the same amount, give or take $40, so I was somewhat reassured that my returns were accurate. But even after going through the process three times on my iPhone, I had lingering questions, and I wouldn’t have been willing to file our return to the Internal Revenue Service without human intervention.', 'It wasn’t all bad. Parts of the mobile experience were surprisingly painless. H&R Block went a step further than its two competitors, offering me the chance to upload my family’s 2017 tax return to help us get started. I was convinced it wouldn’t work, but it did, seamlessly, all from my phone. This saved me the grief of entering four Social Security numbers and other tediousness.', 'More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.', 'But after I completed my return, there was a photo of a smiling C.P.A. with 19 years of experience who said I could book a video call.', 'If you have a relatively straightforward situation and are willing to spend at least a couple of hours trying this on your own phone, you might see how you fare. You have nothing to lose (except maybe your sanity) because you generally don’t have to pay anything until you file.', 'As for me, I’m going to stick with my human accountant.', 'Tara Siegel Bernard covers personal finance. Before joining The Times in 2008, she was deputy managing editor at FiLife, a personal finance website, and an editor at CNBC. She also worked at Dow Jones and contributed regularly to The Wall Street Journal.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Your Taxes 2019: They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!)
['Prince was aboard the Silver Whisper, a luxury cruise ship docked in French Polynesia, sipping his morning coffee from sparkling china as he lamented a tax break that was about to save him millions of dollars.', 'The founder of a private company that makes plastic gift cards, Mr. Prince is among the wealthy elite who stand to benefit enormously from the Trump tax cuts passed in 2017. He estimates that his tax bill this year will be $3 million less than it would have been absent the changes.', 'Yet Mr. Prince, a Democrat from Nashville, is none too pleased about his windfall. He believes the Trump tax cuts are misguided and ultimately bad for the country, even as they pad his already robust bank account.', 'More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.', 'The sweeping reorganization of the tax code is affecting Americans unevenly. Corporations benefited tremendously. Many have reported higher profits and increased payments to shareholders. Some companies offered workers bonuses.', 'But many lower- and middle-income earners will not see their tax bills fall by much, if at all. Instead, the vast majority of individuals who stand to gain from the tax cuts are business owners and those who earn substantial income through pass-through entities. That is, people like Mr. Prince.', 'Most of those in line to benefit from the Trump tax cuts are not complaining. Plenty of business owners and investors cheered the changes as good for themselves and the economy.', 'But Mr. Prince has found camaraderie among an ad hoc group of wealthy individuals known as the Patriotic Millionaires. Founded in 2010 by Morris Pearl, a former BlackRock executive, the loose-knit group advocates higher taxes on businesses and the wealthy. In recent years, they have met with legislators in Washington and various state capitals, testified before Congress and endorsed candidates who endorse higher taxes on the rich.', 'This is not the first time millionaires have voiced their enthusiasm for higher taxation. In 2011, President Obama introduced the so-called Buffett rule. Named after the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has spoken out in favor of higher taxes for the rich, the tax would have applied a minimum rate of 30 percent on individuals earning more than $1 million a year.', 'The swift pushback from Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Schultz was a reminder of just how far outside the mainstream the Patriotic Millionaires’ views are for the wealthy, even the liberal ones.', 'Eric Schoenberg, another member of the group, estimates that the Trump tax cuts will save him tens of thousands of dollars this year, and millions in the years to come.', 'Mr. Schoenberg has emerged as one of the most outspoken members of the group, taking to the internet to break down his tax returns. Had the Trump tax cuts been in effect in 2016, he would have saved some $50,000 on his taxes that year, he said.', 'For those wealthy enough to be saving tens of thousands of dollars in taxes, or even millions, the sums are not particularly meaningful from a financial perspective. After all, they’re already awful rich.', 'To drive home his point, Mr. Pearl used an analogy Mr. Schultz might appreciate. “If the Starbucks guy gives you an extra cup of coffee, it’s not like you think, ‘Now I have an extra $3; what am I going to do with it?’” he said.', 'But others in the group said they would be putting their tax savings to work. John Driscoll, the chief executive of CareCentrix, a health care company, has not done his taxes for 2018 but expects a windfall. With the extra money, Mr. Driscoll said he would double his support for progressive causes and politicians.', 'Mr. Prince, speaking from the Silver Whisper, said he had no plans to make voluntary contributions to the Treasury. “I don’t want to just give away my money to the government,” he said.', 'Instead he plans to continue his quixotic quest to increase his own tax rate, even as it places him at odds with so many of his affluent peers.', 'An earlier version of this article misstated Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal for a new tax on wealthy Americans. The proposal would levy a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s assets above $50 million, not on all assets owned by a household with a net worth of $50 million or more.', 'They’re Rich and They’re Mad  About Taxes: Too Low!', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Government Shutdown Made the I.R.S. Even More Frustrating
['WASHINGTON — The longest government shutdown in United States history resulted in a “shocking” number of taxpayers’ calls to the Internal Revenue Service going unreturned or being left to languish on hold for unusually long periods, according to a government audit released on Tuesday.', 'The audit, by the office of the National Taxpayer Advocate, found that over five million pieces of mail went unanswered and 87,000 amended tax returns were not processed during the shutdown, when thousands of I.R.S. workers were furloughed or working without pay.', 'The issues were especially acute since they followed significant changes to the tax code — ushered in by President Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax overhaul — that left many people with questions about filing their returns.', 'The problems continued even after the shutdown, the audit found. In the week that ended Feb. 2, shortly after agency employees returned to their jobs, fewer than half of the calls to the I.R.S.’s accounts-management lines were answered, compared with nearly 90 percent during the same week last year. The typical hold time for such callers increased to 17 minutes from four minutes in 2018.', 'There were similar frustrations for those who called the agency’s so-called balance-due line in hopes of making payment arrangements for taxes they owed. Fewer than 7 percent of such calls were answered, and the typical wait for those that were stretched to more than 80 minutes.', 'I.R.S. officials said they were reviewing the taxpayer advocate’s findings.', 'Data released by the agency last week showed that Americans had filed 12 percent fewer returns through Feb. 2, compared with the same point in 2018, and that the I.R.S. had processed 26 percent fewer returns. The agency has given no indication — in Tuesday’s statement or otherwise — that it might consider pushing back April’s tax filing deadline in order to account for shutdown-related snags.', 'The outdated systems deprive the I.R.S. of a comprehensive view of taxpayers’ accounts, hampering the agency’s ability to properly identify who should be targeted for outreach, collections and audits.', 'Inadequate financing is a primary cause of the agency’s failings, the audit found. Congress has long beat up on the I.R.S., routinely condemning its performance while cutting its budget. For example, money for technology improvements in the 2018 fiscal year was reduced 62 percent, to $110 million, from the year before.', 'Taxpayers who called the I.R.S. last fall for advice about how the new tax law would affect them were frequently told that there was “no tax law personnel at this time due to budgetary cuts” and were disconnected, the audit found. Part of the reason was a decision by the agency to answer tax law questions only during the three and a half months from January until tax filing day.', 'A lack of information has also meant that the vast majority of taxpayers eligible to use free software to file their returns electronically do not take advantage of the program. Of the 106 million taxpayers who could qualify for the free program, fewer than 2.5 million use it.', 'Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to a 62 percent reduction in financing for the Internal Revenue Service in the 2018 fiscal year. It applied to technology improvements specifically, not general improvements.', 'After Shutdown, Americans Feel ‘Extreme Frustration’ Toward I.R.S.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Wealth Matters: When Private Fights Over Millions Become Public (Things Get Ugly)
['There are private family squabbles, and then there are family squabbles that splash into public view, shining a spotlight on a bitter dispute.', 'But Ms. Neumann-Donnelly, representing her mother’s estate, claims that it could have fetched far more, had it not been for her father’s interference.', 'Despite the large sums of money, the fight is a family squabble like any other, although one that played out in New York newspapers and trade publications. Most people would want to avoid such costly and destructive courtroom battles, but they are increasingly common. In fact, legal action among family members has become a booming business for lawyers who specialize in estate litigation.', 'One reason for the uptick in litigation, Mr. Geida said, is that blended families often divide into factions that are rife with conflicting interests.', 'Another reason is there is simply so much wealth now to argue over, said Amanda K. DiChello, a trusts and estates lawyer at Cozen O’Connor’s private client services practice.', 'But what’s good for young lawyers building a career is not good for families that want harmony — or at least want to avoid squandering millions on legal bills.', 'Avoiding costly and destructive family squabbles is both straightforward and incredibly complex. Family members must be willing to put in effort that may be unpleasant and difficult.', 'Step one is to talk through the plan. That’s easier said than done.', 'Ms. Christerson, who has three decades of experience advising wealthy families, said she had counseled parents who divided their estate unequally to discuss the reasons and the ramifications.', 'Often these talks are not about dividing the money as much as they are about defining a family’s values and addressing existing conflicts. Understanding that allows parents to put a plan in place, along the lines of governance principles that companies use.', 'Hubert Neumann and his daughter Belinda Neumann-Donnelly at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 2011. She has filed two lawsuits over family artworks.', 'Unequal divisions of estates are often just an extension of how parents treated their children while the parents were alive. But without them around to explain their actions, their children are left to create their own stories, which can deepen an existing rivalry.', 'When it comes to the estate itself — often a mix of cash, securities, homes and tangible objects like art, cars and collections — a lack of clear reasons for the divisions can create conflict.', 'Paul Karger, co-founder and managing partner of TwinFocus, which advises ultra-wealthy families, said the most difficult things to divide were what he calls troubled assets, which are so complex that they defy the capabilities of most wealth managers.', 'He cited the example of a billionaire who, before he died, had troubled assets, including a yacht, two jets and real estate developments that were all uncompleted. All of the assets were valuable, but the exact amounts were unknown, and his heirs did not know who was to inherit what.', 'If an estate is going to be divided unequally, the heirs should know ahead of time.', 'In the case of the Neumann Basquiat, Ms. Neumann-Donnelly claimed in a lawsuit that her mother had written her father out of the will and left the painting to her alone. Lawyers say disinheriting someone almost always guarantees a family fight.', 'Dean R. Nicyper, a partner at the law firm Withers Worldwide, said parents might feel they had justifiable reasons for writing a child out of their will.', 'In some instances, reaching a resolution may be impossible. Selling assets held jointly may be the only solution. Ms. Neumann-Donnelly argued in her January court filing that owning the artworks with her father and sisters was no longer possible, so they should be sold and the proceeds divided evenly.', 'Selling assets and splitting the money is fair in the eyes of the courts, but it often does not tamp down inflamed emotions. Often, they are family heirlooms, not securities in a portfolio.', 'There are legal strategies to address this, including an in terrorem, or no-contest, clause. In exchange for not suing the estate, for instance, the person who is disinherited is given a token amount that will be forfeited if a suit is filed.', 'Not every state allows these clauses. Florida, where some of the wealthiest Americans claim residency, does not allow in terrorem clauses. New York allows them but with caveats.', 'If parents do not lay out their wishes in complex family situations, they need to understand that litigation is a possibility.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Pak raises 'hostile'' India remarks, wants OIC to probe LoC violations
[]


UP cop who named SP leader in bribery case shunted out of post
[]


Behind football''s biggest fixing disclosure, the hand of a Singaporean of Tamil origin
[]


AG says Raja altered note cleared by him on spectrum applications
[]


Modi will visit Kumbh, but only after VHP meet ends
[]


Trial begins, family wants death for juvenile
[]


Ordinance is in response to public demand: Chidambaram
[]


Soccer probe finds 425 people, 680 matches suspect
[]


Defend juvenile law provisions: SC tells Centre
[]


SG Nariman resigns, second one to go in as many years
[]


Akhilesh bonanza for school games: Nano cars for top athletes, cycles for all
[]


Court frames charges, 5 accused plead not guilty
[]


SC protects Nandy, raps him for being irresponsible
[]


Rape victim wants Cong leader probed
[]


SC junks Kerala rape acquittals, orders HC to re-examine case
[]


Cabinet clears Lokpal changes, Lokayuktas clause dropped
[]


Realty giants in web of firms linked to Maya''s brother
[]


Amid Modi talk, Rajnath for restraint, 'patience''
[]


HC bench stops Vishwaroopam, stray violence mars screening
[]


Filing of I-T returns obligatory even after tax payment
[]


Column : Beggar thy currency or thy self?
[]


RBI cuts repo rate and CRR, sets stage for lower interest rates
[]


Delhi gangrape: Board says accused a minor
[]


Yashwant first to speak: Name Modi for PM, party will gain
[]


Column : Davos delirium
[]


Modi calls on Rajnath, discusses 2014 polls, 'service to country'', road ahead
[]


FIR against Ashis Nandy after he says OBCs, SCs, STs most corrupt
[]


Dhule rioters in uniform: CM blames 'some communal elements'' in police
[]


Have gun? Save women: Delhi L-G
[]


Saved by missing speaker, CM Shettar says has majority
[]


'Disappointed' with David Headley punishment, says India
[]


Gangrape left our hearts empty: President
[]


IMF chief invokes Delhi rape victim in Davos
[]


Mumbai Police targets couples, beats retreat
[]


SC questions Centre authority on coal blocks
[]


Nitin Gadkari tells Income-Tax officers: Who will protect you when BJP wins power?
[]


Aadhaar now must for new PF accounts
[]


Karnataka BJP govt survives as speaker gives rebels the slip
[]


Rajnath elected BJP president, tells Gadkari 'you are not alone''
[]


'Shocked to see Home Secy patting top cop''
[]


No death for rape, review AFSPA: panel
[]


NIA names 'terrorists with RSS-BJP links''
[]


Chautala and son jailed for 10 yrs
[]


India remains cold to Pakistan talks offer, UN intervention
[]


Is FDI a gimmick or has it led to investments?: SC
[]


Govt raises gold import duty, hopes for a fall in demand
[]


Another Delhi gangrape accused claims he is juvenile
[]


BJP says sack Shinde, 'has helped Pak cause''
[]


Shinde sees terror in BJP, RSS camps, Sangh says apologise
[]


Rahul seeks sweat, Congress has tears
[]


Rahul named Congress vice-president
[]


Critically injured Burundi student opens his eyes as sister arrives in Patiala
[]


Pakistan women''s World Cup group matches go to 'peaceful'' Cuttack
[]


Hit by 'Naxal fire'', IAF chopper crash-lands in Chhattisgarh
[]


Sonia to Cong: Respond to 'demanding, changing India''
[]


Reduce age of juvenility to 16: Delhi top cop
[]


MoEF deputy director held for taking bribe, Rs 1 cr seized
[]


SC questions red beacon lights, security for all groups of 'VIPs''
[]


Air India grounds its 787s after US directive
[]


India to wait and watch after Pak talks offer
[]


Diesel to be costlier in 'small doses''
[]


DGMOs talk, promise calm; Pak army orders restraint on LoC
[]


Army Chief visits slain jawan''s home, denies Pak charges
[]


Chautala, son convicted, jailed in 1999 teacher hirings scam
[]


Army: LoC breach to see instant reaction
[]


You can replace Pak players, HIL tells teams; women''s cricket Cup takes a hit
[]


School papers show rape accused juvenile
[]


Pak in fresh chaos, SC orders PM arrest
[]


PM says can''t be business as usual with Pakistan after 'barbaric act''
[]


Sena protests against Pak hockey players, disrupts practice
[]


India, Pak to hold flag meet at Poonch today
[]


May have to look at other options: Air Chief on Pak
[]


Screen honours best of 2012
[]


India moots flag meeting to defuse tension with Pakistan
[]


Killings continue in the new year, sarpanch shot dead in Sopore
[]


Anil Ambani lifts 'King of Kings'' Narendra Modi to the league of Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel
[]


Another ceasefire violation at LoC, Pak soldier killed
[]


In chilling  first, Naxals insert bomb in body of slain jawan
[]


Gender-sensitivity project for cops brings change in Karnataka
[]


Baramulla police register case under IT Act for video showing 'police beating boys''
[]


Jharkhand stalemate continues, JMM leaders camp in Delhi for talks with Cong
[]


Ahead of Rly budget, Bansal raises fares
[]


New Delhi summons Bashir to protest, Pak says let UN probe
[]


Delhi raises 'resurgence'' of Khalistan movement with West
[]


Chicago police probe mystery death of Indian-origin lottery winner
[]


Pak crossborder raid kills 2 jawans
[]


President''s rule likely as Arjun Munda quits, Congress wary
[]


Thousands throng to welcome home India''s new pace find
[]


IITs raise tuition fee to Rs 90K per annum, agree to be peer reviewed
[]


Gangrape: Minor accused summoned, school told to get back with birth records
[]


Court orders in camera proceedings
[]


Exchange of fire at LoC, Pak claims post attacked, 1 dead
[]


Want the world to know her name: Delhi victim''s father
[]


Teacher, peon arrested for 'raping'' kids in Bastar hostel
[]


Five accused to be produced in court tomorrow
[]


Pak Taliban faction''s new chief fought in JandK
[]


Angry Alagiri hits back at father: 'DMK not a mutt''
[]


Rapes occur in urban India, not rural Bharat, says Bhagwat; BJP defends him
[]


Karunanidhi makes it clear, Stalin is his successor
[]


Chargesheet filed, six judges named for fast track courts
[]


Rape trial should be fast, just: CJI Altamas Kabir
[]


Duty on gold may rise to 6% to discourage imports
[]


Blow to Narendra Modi, SC upholds appointment of Lokayukta
[]


Centre sets up special task force to review women''s safety in Delhi
[]


Delhi gangrape: Bus driver tried to run her over, friend pulled her away, say police
[]


Direct Benefits Transfer scheme launch today in 20 districts
[]


Teen called her 'sister'', lured her to bus: Sushma
[]


Police draft chargesheet, teen accused kept out till bone test
[]


Hurried morning cremation for rape victim
[]


NY subway victim Sunando Sen was 'very educated', a heart patient
[]


Gangrape victim loses battle for life, outpouring of grief across country
[]


PM wants fuel prices raised in phases
[]


Delhi protesters 'dented, painted'': President''s son
[]


Govt to prepare rapists'' database, make it public
[]


Decks cleared for Ikea to open in India
[]


Old allies and new friends attend Modi swearing-in
[]


New statement of rape victim recorded as Sheila Dikshit, Neeraj Kumar spar
[]


Delhi gangrape: Cop dies, murder charge in FIR
[]


India signs $4 bn worth defence deals with Russia
[]


Ramdev, V K Singh named in Jantar Mantar riot FIR
[]


PM addresses nation: As a father of girls, feel the pain
[]


Sachin Tendulkar declares his ODI innings over
[]


PM tells Shinde to ensure 'sense of security'', Sushma Swaraj seeks special session of Parliament
[]


Delhi gangrape: Raisina Hill under siege
[]


Train attendant accuses UP minister Azam Khan of hitting him over bedding
[]


Chhattisgarh beats Centre, makes food security law
[]


Friend meets rape victim, tells her she will get better soon
[]


CBI charges Airtel, Vodafone, ex-telecom secy in 2002 case
[]


Clueless Congress throws its hands up in the air
[]


Virbhadra leads Cong to win against divided BJP
[]


As Modi looms large, BJP looks larger: 'Fifth straight win for party''
[]


'Creative person must not only entertain, also build values''
[]


Fourth-time CM eyes first-time PM
[]


Fourth-time CM eyes first-time PM
[]


2 Delhi gangrape suspects confess, one says 'hang me for horrible crime''
[]


Dilip Chhabria's DC Design to go big on niche segment of cars
[]


Govt to provide similar tax treatment to FPIs, FIIs in India
[]


BSE Sensex falls 68 pts, first drop in three days as HDFC Bank, Sun Pharmaceuticals share prices drop
[]


Performance pay helped top India Inc executives get hikes in 2013
[]


Indian rupee continues to rule firm, quotes at 61.86 vs  US dollar
[]


BSE Sensex up 19 points, NSE Nifty just above 6,200
[]


Decided to hold rates even before inflation data: Rajan
[]


India Post draws up Rs 4,900-crore ATM network plan
[]


Nelp X will be under revenue-sharing model: M Veerappa Moily
[]


Risks to Indian economy will continue, RBI to hike key policy rates: RICS
[]


India's ONGC shuts down South Sudan oilfields, evacuates employees
[]


Raghuram Rajan: Controlling inflation remains RBI priority
[]


BSE Sensex closes 21 points higher, Infosys share price down over 2 pct
[]


Yearender: Ponzi schemes stump investors, at least Rs 40,000 cr in limbo
[]


Another European major to come into multi-brand retail: Anand Sharma
[]


Aircel launches new video calling tarrifs for festive season
[]


BSE Sensex higher as blue chips, real estate shares gain
[]


P. Chidambaram: Growth in banking sector great achievement of UPA govt
[]


Yearender: Blue-chips gain ground, small stocks suffer and Kingfisher Airlines falls 72 pct, Spicejet 63 pct
[]


Finnish city Oulu sees light at end of Nokia tunnel
[]


BSE Sensex up around 100 points, foreign inflows help
[]


Indian Rupee continues to trade stronger
[]


In last reform push, govt proposes FDI in railways
[]


Time for a relook at insurance cover for corporates, decision-makers
[]


CPI-linked bonds for inflation-proof investment
[]


Air India to sell 7 Boeing Dreamliners
[]


Yearender: BSE Sensex, NSE Nifty hit new highs in 2013, IT stocks outshine
[]


Yearender: Gold comes off all-time high, silver declines during 2013
[]


Yearender: Sting operations, bad loans hit all from SBI to Yes Bank
[]


Companies Act, rise in frauds to change India Inc approach: Ernst and Young
[]


Indirect tax collections up 5 pct in Apr-Nov
[]


New customs form for Indians, foreigners from January 1
[]


States ramp up salary bill via plan expenditure
[]


Weekly review: Market takes US Fed tapering in stride as BSE Sensex surges 364 pts
[]


Gold recovers, prices up by Rs 240 to Rs 30,400
[]


PepsiCo India to invest over 1,200 cr on new beverage plant in Andhra Pradesh
[]


Amid slowdown, net direct tax collection up 13.7% till Dec 20 FY'14
[]


As US Federal Reserve tapers, don't count out emerging market currencies
[]


Gold heads for biggest annual loss in 32 years
[]


Another high-profile exit from Infosys as Narayana Murthy''s 'blue-eyed boy' V Balakrishnan quits
[]


Diageo may end up with a smaller stake in Vijay Mallya's United Spirits
[]


Petrol price hiked by 41 paise, diesel by 10 paise
[]


Diesel price hiked by 10 paise a litre on jump in dealers' commission
[]


Indian rupee snaps 3 days losing streak, closes at 62.04 against dollar
[]


Gold price falls further by Rs 205 to Rs 30,160 in Delhi
[]


Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade row: Protesters attack Domino's Pizza outlet in Mumbai
[]


BSE Sensex surges 371 pts to cross 21,000-mark, Reliance Industries share price jumps on gas price hike
[]


Bharatiya Janata Party's priority will be to recreate the investment cycle: Arun Jaitley
[]


Jignesh Shah scam: Govt looking at all options to deal with NSEL crisis, says Sachin Pilot
[]


Reliance Industries shares gain after govt allows gas price hikes
[]


Sensex trims initial gains, still up 96 points at 20,804
[]


Rupee drops 14 paise vs dollar in late morning trade
[]


Mumbai airport gets to receive first A380s, world''s largest commercial aircraft, flying into country
[]


NRIs, foreign VC investors may not be counted as FIIs
[]


SBI slashes home loan rates, HDFC follows with 'special winter bonanza''
[]


Dust, fog pushed northern grid close to collapse on Wednesday night
[]


India's MHA may give clearance to Vodafone's Rs 10,141 cr FDI proposal soon
[]


Fund houses like HDFC Mutual Funs, Reliance Mutual Fund remain under pressure in Q2
[]


Winter bonanza: SBI, HDFC slash home loan rates day after Raghuram Rajan's RBI puts hike on hold
[]


Congress-led UPA govt may rethink monthly diesel price hikes after disastrous poll verdicts: Nomura
[]


Gold, silver prices fall in Mumbai, US Federal Reserve effect seen
[]


After Tesco PLC, expect more global chains in multi-brand retail to come to India: Anand Sharma
[]


Cabinet proposal soon to constitute 7th Pay Commission for revising salaries
[]


BSE Sensex falls 151 pts as Fed taper ignites foreign investor sales concern
[]


BSE Sensex falls 151 points as US Fed announces cut in economic stimulus
[]


United Nations lowers India's economic growth forecast to 4.8 per cent for 2013
[]


Religare Health launches critical illness and accident product
[]


India better prepared to deal with US Federal Reserve tapering: P. Chidambaram
[]


BSE Sensex falls over 150 pts but TCS and Infosys gain as US Fed starts tapering
[]


Indian rupee extends losses for 3rd straight day, drops by 37 paise to 62.46 vs dollar
[]


Dow Jones industrial average, SandP 500 end at record highs after US Fed trims stimulus
[]


US Fed tapers starts, Ben Bernanke to slash bond purchases by $10 bn, emerging markets on notice
[]


RBI spares borrowers, keeps interest rates unchanged
[]


Infosys may hire 16,000 from campuses next year: Narayana Murthy
[]


NSEL scam: FMC finds Jignesh Shah, Financial Technologies not fit and proper to run any bourse
[]


FMC allows Blackstone GPV Capital Partners to raise Multi Commodity Exchange of India stake to 4.99 pct
[]


Shunted out of top 10 banks list, 'displeased' HDFC Bank wants rankings overhauled
[]


Gold price snaps 2-day falling trend in Delhi, up Rs 30 to Rs 30,430
[]


Raghuram Rajan says NPAs not alarming, but time for corrective steps
[]


India is better prepared to deal with Fed tapering: Arvind Mayaram
[]


India Inc hails RBI decision not to hike repo rate
[]


India is world No 1 in individuals directly owning stocks: Oxford's Ramadorai
[]


Realtors expect positive sentiment from RBI's bold policy move
[]


Warren Buffett adds $37 mn per day in his fortune in 2013
[]


With 87% data traffic from 3G, mobile data consumption jumped 220 pct in 2013: Airtel
[]


Raghuram Rajan: Economic growth expected to improve in second half of 2013-14
[]


Raghuram Rajan pulls repo rate surprise, says headline inflation dictated RBI stance
[]


13 top points in Guv Raghuram Rajan's RBI monetary policy review
[]


Raghuram Rajan's RBI surprises by keeping repo rate unchanged at 7.75 pc
[]


Trent shares surges 17.9 per cent after Tesco deal
[]


Rupee down 17 paise against US dollar in early trade
[]


BSE Sensex up over 58 points ahead RBI policy review
[]


Microsoft expects to name new chief early in 2014
[]


Viagra's generic version to be available from 2017
[]


RBI's Raghuram Rajan tipped to hike repo rate by 25 bps to 8 per cent
[]


Tesco, Trent JV to bring in first multi-brand retail FDI
[]


Give incentives to banks for timely taming of NPAs: RBI paper
[]


At $18.73 bn in 2013 so far, Indian markets are FIIs' top choice
[]


Economic growth rate in India weak, prospects for 2014 poor: Moody's
[]


Mizoram GSDP grew 11% in 11th plan period compared to country's 7.8%: Governor
[]


Tesco PLC to open multi-brand stores in India, to partner Tata group's Trent
[]


Gold price falls in Delhi on sell-off by stockists; silver surges Rs 1,000
[]


Corporate Governance Code for listed companies to be revamped, says Sebi
[]


BSE Sensex down for 6th day, falls 47 pts ahead of RBI, US Fed meets, HDFC Bank share price hit
[]


Apollo Tyres Ltd deal: Cooper Tire loses court rescue bid
[]


BSE Sensex gains 93 points, ICICI Bank shares lead
[]


For TCS, hiking headcount a sign of better times ahead
[]


India Inc forms companies to fund politics, tax free
[]


Court rejects Vijay Mallya's United Breweries Ltd plea on BNP Paribas' petition
[]


Nashik farmers halt biz as onion prices drop to Rs 9.5
[]


Recipe: Kakori Kebab
[]


Amazing price tags of world's most expensive meals revealed
[]


Cooking the simple way with Chef Tiffany Goodall
[]


Berry wines could provide tasty drug for diabetes
[]


Red wine compound 'may help improve mobility in seniors'
[]


3D printed meats may soon be on your dinner tables
[]


Care for 'coffee' that makes you want to take off your clothes?
[]


Everybody is a Chef
[]


Secrets waiters won''t ever tell you
[]


Titanic menu sold for 46,000 pounds
[]


Pak SC settles bitter battle over humble samosa
[]


Fizzy drinks add pounds, make it harder to shed flab: study
[]


Travel Picks: Top 10 cities for street food
[]


Mirchi at the Table
[]


Eggs more nutritious than before: study
[]


Takeaways contain more salt, Indian food a better choice
[]


'Flavours of India' during Olympics
[]


Watch Your Diet
[]


Don't skip meals to lose weight: study
[]


Indians get sweet on chocolates
[]


100-year-old rare whiskey found in US man''s attic
[]


I Scream for Gelato
[]


Now, a self-chilling beer can that needs no fridge
[]


Epping-based Indian eatery named best S Asian Restaurant in UK
[]


Taste of India catching on in New Dubai
[]


Largest McDonald's outlet set for Olympics
[]


What Olympic athletes really eat
[]


Tiffin Top
[]


Spirited Traveller: Moscow's love-hate relationship with vodka
[]


Spirited Traveler: Moving beyond beer in Munich
[]


Dress salads with canola or olive oil to get most nutrients out of veggies
[]


World chefs: Paco Roncero's take on molecular gastronomy
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Dawa, Nairobi's "medicinal" cocktail
[]


Healthiest meal ever includes salmon terrine, chicken casserole and walnut
[]


Trend of weird ice-cream flavours sweeping in
[]


Original recipe of Jack Daniel''s found in herbal remedies book
[]


France's oldest sparkling wine fights for its future
[]


World Chefs: Saad puts global spin on familiar dishes
[]


"Flying table" lifts gourmet dining to new heights
[]


Milk ingredient may help you get slimmer waistline
[]


Mangoes can help fight flab: study
[]


75th anniversary of National Doughnut Day
[]


French Revolution
[]


Bananas 'better than sports drinks for athletes'.
[]


London organizers promising a tasty Games
[]


Now, modified chocolate that can slow down ageing
[]


For something so simple, pasta is serious business
[]


Vegetables are healthy, whether raw or cooked
[]


The Mocktail Circuit
[]


Food dropped on floor safe to eat if picked up within 3 secs
[]


Fuse Box
[]


Caffeine boosts athletic performance: study
[]


On offer, lamb curry and Kebabs without the lamb itself
[]


Bonne Bistro
[]


Reports on 'end of Johnnie Walker' completely false: Diageo
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Spoilt for tippling choice in Manchester
[]


Cherries may help you get a good night''s sleep
[]


One third of women are secret snackers: study
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Mojitos reign over Miami's cocktail scene
[]


Chef Sanjeev Kapoor takes tour of White House kitchen
[]


Dip into new flavours
[]


Why fried food is not always bad for you
[]


Chocolates with a 'desi' touch a hit in Kolkata
[]


Brits spend more than £ 15k on coffee over lifetime
[]


Spicy curry key to healthy heart: study
[]


Eating chocolates may help cut your extra kilos
[]


Swish sip
[]


Spices, herbs for a healthier heart
[]


A Meatier Menu
[]


Daily coffee intake can cut Alzheimer''s risk: study
[]


'Infusing foods with strong aroma can help you eat less'
[]


Now, enjoy ice cream made of camel milk
[]


Red meat boosts risk of dying young: study
[]


Oven Fresh
[]


Meal Ticket; Wine and dine
[]


Snob Meter Running
[]


Alcohol consumption may help lower stroke risk in women: study
[]


How fruit and veggies could make you more attractive
[]


Eating pistachios may help you stay slim and fit
[]


Ice-cream 'can be as addictive as cocaine'
[]


Pasta and pizza become Britain''s favourite ready meal
[]


Get the best of olive oils
[]


Scientist develop meatless product for meat lovers
[]


Belle Baby
[]


Kremlin gets its own vodka brand
[]


Want to taste real hot shot? Try Naga Chilli Vodka
[]


7 sweet facts about how chocolates are prepared
[]


Bread, not chips, is biggest salt source
[]


'Liquid gold'': Olive oil and its benefits
[]


Champagne tastes best in tall glasses
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Phoenix goes creative cocktail crazy
[]


Spirited Traveler: Old Fashioneds in Madison, Wisconsin
[]


Cravings for fatty foods linked to genes: researchers
[]


Dark temptation: How much is too much?
[]


Honey can prevent chronic wound infections
[]


Eating fish tied to lower risk of colon polyps: study
[]


Singapore to host Food and Hotel Asia 2012
[]


Diet fizzy drinks add to heart attack risk: study
[]


Drink milk 'to boost brain power'
[]


Food adds spice to Indian investment in UK
[]


Perfect vodka martini should be stirred with a wooden spoon
[]


'Food is an additional garnishing on travel experience'
[]


Eating mainly fish and chicken diet bad for you
[]


Fruit and veggies may help ward off colon cancer
[]


Mouthwatering images of food in ads fuelling obesity epidemic
[]


Tender love makes food taste better and even soothes pain
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Looking beyond Lisbon's port
[]


Eating from a red plate could help you to lose weight
[]


The Spirited Traveller: The politics of tippling in Washington D.C
[]


Drinkers to have 2 drink-free days a week
[]


Walnut a day keeps the doctor away
[]


Spirited Traveller: Kansas City next big league cocktail town
[]


6 steps to prevent champagne cork from shooting your eye
[]


Why champagne is so bubbly
[]


Red meat lovers have more kidney cancer: study
[]


American chefs boost fine dining in France
[]


'No link between perception of sweet tooth and eating'
[]


A Growing Appetite
[]


Preference for salty foods begins in infancy
[]


What your choice of wine says about you
[]


Guava, the ultimate superfood
[]


How coffee can pep up workouts
[]


Auma: A new dining destination
[]


Eat eggs at breakfast to lose weight: study
[]


Why it is so tough to make healthier hot dogs
[]


Spirited Traveller: Drinking in Helsinki can be hard and fruity
[]


We eat breakfast in 3 min, that too standing up
[]


Eating fish can protect from Alzheimer's risk
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Berlin's booming bar scene
[]


Bananas favour long days: research
[]


Now, home brewer kit that can make 40 pints of beer in 7 days
[]


Moderate drinking tied to lower diabetes risk
[]


Teens eat too little fruit, vegetables: report
[]


Beer, wine similarly reduce risk of heart disease
[]


Modern diet to blame for dental problems: study
[]


Plate colour can change your perception of taste: study
[]


Beer is good for your heart, says study
[]


'Injured'' alcoholic brains work harder to complete even simple tasks
[]


Green tea could lower 'bad cholesterol'
[]


Spirited Traveller: Cocktailing in Copenhagen
[]


Veganism has some stylish new spokespeople: Celebs
[]


Women's risk of uterine fibroids lower with fruit :study
[]


Cheese may not be as bad for cholesterol as other fat: research
[]


Spain's long lunches under threat
[]


Women spend 20 minutes thinking before having dessert
[]


Tea goes 'soft'' to take on colas
[]


Chocolate milk claimed as the best drink to recover from workouts
[]


Negative calories for weight loss
[]


What your favourite sandwich reveals about you
[]


A foodie in the family? There's a book for them!
[]


1 in 6 pupils skipping breakfast 'leaving them disruptive in class'
[]


Overcooked meat doubles cancer risk: study
[]


People aware of good eating rules, but lack willpower to follow them
[]


Coffee followed by a nap may be more restorative
[]


Manuka honey''s sweet benefits
[]


Agent Salt
[]


Simple test to detect fake Scotch
[]


New tool can tell calorie intake from snap of your meal
[]


Alcohol betters survival chances after heart attack: study
[]


Formula Flavours
[]


Curry Parmesan: Sikhs rescue Italy's famous cheese
[]


The Spirited Traveller: Drinking in Melbourne's golden age
[]


Salad drawer 'most dangerous place in fridge'
[]


Smart celebrations
[]


Tata Sons, Singapore Airlines joint venture orders Airbus A320s
[]


Despite high-profile Ranbaxy alerts, US FDA finds India okay
[]


Mercedes-Benz launches all new S-Class luxury sedan at Rs 1.57 crore
[]


New Honda City launched in India, price of diesel variant starts Rs 8.62 lakh
[]


Govt for FDI in e-commerce, floats discussion paper
[]


TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Technologies may show muted growth in Q3
[]


Indian companies' debt sale dips 19.5% to $52bn, overseas bonds up 60% at $16bn
[]


Air India grounds VRS plan citing high attrition, lack of funds
[]


Nokia''s guarantee serves no purpose, I-T tells Delhi High Court
[]


Bajaj Allianz unveils all-women office, to hire 15,000
[]


Bharti Retail ropes in Raj Jain as CEO
[]


Sahara Group chief Subrata Roy moves Supreme Court seeking permission to go abroad
[]


LIC's claim settlement better than pvt insurers: Irda
[]


Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor December sales up, Mahindra and Mahindra, others fail to keep pace
[]


New Year cheer: 8.5 lakh new jobs, 20% pay hike in 2014
[]


Tata Power welcomes Arvind Kejriwal govt's move to provide power subsidy in Delhi
[]


Cyrus Pallonji Mistry calls for openness, synergy among Tata Group cos
[]


Developers optimistic of revival in realty sector in 2014
[]


Law making, fraud fighting make 2013 a watershed year for Corporate Affairs Ministry
[]


Central Vigilance Commission recommends action against Suresh Kalmadi, probes multi-crore scams
[]


FIPB clears Tesco's $110 mn multi-brand retail proposal for 50% stake in Tata Trent
[]


FIPB clears Vodafone Group Plc's Rs 10,141 crore plan to fully own India unit
[]


HCL emerges top contender for £80-100 million UK deal
[]


Govt starts prosecution proceedings in alleged fraud at Reebok India
[]


Harried Kingfisher Airlines employees to turn to Arvind Kejriwal for help
[]


Forward movement for Indian aviation industry in 2013
[]


Offer for Tata Group's Blue hotel property  in Sydney falls through
[]


HCL Technologies steals the show in 2013, TCS still on top with Rs 6.69L crore market wealth
[]


CCI okays Vijay Mallya's United Spirits deal to sell Tamil Nadu distillery
[]


Airtel pre-paid users can access Facebook in 9 local languages
[]


Amazon to compensate customers for late gifts
[]


Telecom companies profit growth to double in next two years: CRISIL
[]


Morgan Stanley exits from Jindal Saw
[]


PC plus trends in 2014 and beyond from Lenovo
[]


Key trends in mobile advertising
[]


India Inc happy with new laws in 2013, expects further reforms
[]


Crunch in seat capacity behind high domestic air fares
[]


Yearender: Global FMCG majors PepsiCo, Unilever, GlaxoSmithKline bet big on India
[]


Dilip Chhabria's DC Design to go big on niche segment of cars
[]


India's ONGC shuts down South Sudan oilfields, evacuates employees
[]


Tata Housing buys 20 acres land in Bangalore for new projects
[]


Companies Act, rise in frauds to change India Inc approach: Ernst and Young
[]


PepsiCo India to invest over 1,200 cr on new beverage plant in Andhra Pradesh
[]


India's MHA may give clearance to Vodafone's Rs 10,141 cr FDI proposal soon
[]


After Tesco PLC, expect more global chains in multi-brand retail to come to India: Anand Sharma
[]


Oberoi Hotel opens a rooftop bar in Dubai
[]


India Inc hails RBI decision not to hike repo rate
[]


Realtors expect positive sentiment from RBI's bold policy move
[]


Flipkart, Olx, Snapdeal most searched shopping websites on Google in 2013
[]


Apollo Tyres Ltd deal: Cooper Tire loses court rescue bid
[]


Court rejects Vijay Mallya's United Breweries Ltd plea on BNP Paribas' petition
[]


Clariant Chemicals to buy masterbatch business of Plastichemix Industries for Rs 135 cr
[]


Phaneesh Murthy to offer consultancy services after getting sacked at iGate
[]


Kingfisher Airlines dues: Income-Tax  Dept asserts first claim on dues recovery from Vijay Mallya's firm
[]


After long wait, Air India set to gain entry into Star Alliance
[]


Torrent Pharmaceuticals to acquire formulation biz of Elder for Rs 2,000 cr
[]


Walmart names Krish Iyer as head for India business
[]


India launch of AirAsia to be delayed beyond January
[]


Allied Blenders and Distillers all set to enter US market with Officer's Choice Whisky
[]


Court lifts Nokia India factory freeze in tax dispute, paves way for Microsoft deal
[]


Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio deal a positive for the Indian telecom market, say analysts
[]


After Rs 1,773-cr fine, CCI orders fresh probe into Coal India
[]


Hero MotoCorp acquires 60 per cent stake in JV with Magneti Marelli
[]


Heineken inches past Vijay Mallya to become top shareholder in United Breweries
[]


India Inc strikes deals worth nearly $27 bn in Jan-Nov 2013
[]


General Motors to stop making cars in Australia by 2017,  2,900 jobs to be lost
[]


Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio Infocomm announce infra sharing agreement
[]


Fortune India 500 list: Indian Oil Corp Ltd tops again, Reliance Industries at No. 2
[]


Santos pulls out of Indian oil and gas blocks
[]


PepsiCo appoints former Nokia executive D Shivakumar as India head
[]


Mukesh Ambani hints at venture between Reliance Industries and Bharti Airtel
[]


Encouraging signs on regulatory front: Vodafone Group CEO
[]


M-cap of 6 blue chip firms rises Rs 34,383 cr, Coal India and ICICI Bank lead
[]


Tata Motors to hike passenger vehicle prices by 1% from January
[]


IT spend on mobility to grow 15%, security and privacy top concerns
[]


Capital gains tax to push up Nokia's Rs 21,153-cr tax liability in India
[]


Qantas relegated to junk status by Standard and Poor's after shock loss warning
[]


Moody's now targets India Inc, outlook negative in 2014
[]


Jubilant Life Sciences shares plunge after FDA warning for US plant
[]


Home-grown beverage cos forging global partnerships to take on Coca-Cola, PepsiCo
[]


Indian companies ahead of China, Brazil in operating globally: Study
[]


Reliance Communications raises 3G internet rate 26 pct, cuts benefits by about 60 pct
[]


Idea Cellular to challenge $96 mn govt penalty notice
[]


Indian oil refiners benefit as Gulf battles for buyers
[]


Hyundai Motor shares tumble on weak November sales
[]


11 people honoured at Forbes India Philanthropy Awards
[]


Hyundai Motor India sales down 10.9 pct in November
[]


Tarun Tejpal's Tehelka case: Networth negative
[]


Tata Power plans to raise up to Rs 5,000 crore in next 3 yrs
[]


Hindustan Unilever told to pay Rs 5.5 L for unfair trade practice
[]


Most international airports are state-owned: IATA
[]


LIC to stop selling 34 life insurance policies in December
[]


Diesel price hiked by 50 paise, petrol rates unchanged
[]


Auto, retail and infra sectors to drive doubling of per capita plastics consumption in 5 years
[]


Diageo's 'Plan W' to empower two million women
[]


Adani Ports inks MoU with Port of Zeebrugge
[]


$2 bn deal: 'Lakshmi Mittal's ArcelorMittal, Nippon Steel set to buy ThyssenKrupp plant'
[]


Wockhardt shares sink about 14 pct on FDA import alert
[]


Reliance Industries bank guarantee issue to be resolved in 15 days: Veerappa Moily
[]


L'Oreal expects 10-15 per cent growth in Indian market
[]


Infrastructure companies pay over USD 1 bn in finance, interest costs in H1
[]


Essar Energy operating profit dips 7 pct in H1 on Indian rupee's fall
[]


'Xerox focus for FY14 will continue to be SMBs'
[]


Premium collection growth among general insurance cos up 14 pct
[]


India can't afford to emulate China: Anand Mahindra
[]


Renault eyes over 3 pct market share in India
[]


I have not done any favour to Reliance Industries: Veerappa Moily tells Supreme Court
[]


Starbucks taking Indian Coffee to its outlets across globe
[]


Tata Motors launches CNG versions of Indigo, Indica cars, price starts Rs 4.99L
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra diversifies into branded fresh fruit biz with Saboro
[]


Etihad Airways jet plane makes emergency landing, 250 passengers on board
[]


Yum Brands to combine KFC, Pizza Hut but keep them separate in India
[]


JK Tyre to invest Rs 1,430 crore to ramp up Chennai facility
[]


Unitech sales bookings fall by 53 pct in first half of FY'14
[]


Sonia fights back after SP snatches Bill
[]


Superstar with a conscience is the guest at Adda tonight
[]


Rapists robbed a man before picking up victim and friend; 4 held, 2 on the run
[]


Delhi rape shakes Parliament, several MPs seek death penalty
[]


Gopal Krishna Gandhi warns, 'Violence may elbow out South Asia's democratic leadership'
[]


All first-graders, kids shot multiple times, Lanza meant to hit hard
[]


Avalanche in Siachen kills 6 Armymen, 1 missing
[]


Rehman Malik stirs fresh row: 'Ansari source of Indian agency'
[]


Captain''s heroic stand puts India back in game  and critics out of it for now
[]


Will alter policies to push growth: PM
[]


Cash transfer will win Cong both 2014, 2019: Rahul Gandhi
[]


Pak 26/11 trial progress encouraging: Salman Khurshid
[]


Malik arrives, sings old Pak tune
[]


SC tells CBI to continue DA probe against Mulayam, sons
[]


RS takes up quota Bill, SP walks out, says 'black day''
[]


Sitar goes silent, India''s first global musician is dead
[]


Mars as 'foreign hand'': Kashmir spends night in fear of 'cosmic rays'' via phone
[]


M S Dhoni brushes aside attacks by Amarnath and others
[]


SC clears Dr Khalil Chisti of murder, says free to return to Pak
[]


Mayawati targets RS chairman Ansari
[]


HSBC will pay record $ 1.92 bn to settle money-laundering charges in US
[]


4 Bengal MLAs in hospital after House free-for-all
[]


EC tells govt to hold LPG cap hike
[]


Walmart: Lok Sabha held up again, govt says concerned, ready for a probe
[]


Congress 2014 plan: Rahul Gandhi to lead, Sonia Gandhi 'patron''
[]


Rahul Dravid says worried over lack of skill, talent coming to team
[]


Walmart lobbying disclosure: Oppn finds new reason to disrupt House
[]


Karnataka govt in trouble as 13 MLAs attend BSY show of strength
[]


Yuvraj, Zaheer dropped for 4th Test, Dhoni says will remain skipper but may change style
[]


GUJARAT: PM plays minority card, slams 'divisive'' BJP
[]


Ind vs Eng: Ashwin the batsman delays the inevitable
[]


Retail FDI: House won, PM woos 'progressive'' Punjab farmers
[]


SC vets AP HC judge elevation despite 'criminal case''
[]


Archery body also de-recognised, this time by govt
[]


2-year jail for 11 in Assam molestation, journalist who shot footage acquitted
[]


Smooth sailing for govt on retail FDI vote in Rajya Sabha
[]


Govt walked tight-rope to woo Mayawati, Mulayam in Rajya Sabha
[]


Mayawati set to bail out govt in RS, to vote for FDI
[]


UPA clinches retail FDI vote as SP, BSP walk out
[]


SC dismisses Sangma plea against Pranab election, two judges register disagreement
[]


'Where I said "you told the paper" should have been phrased "you suggested to the paper that Joshi sought to influence the CAG report".'
[]


GMR wins stay order but Malé says no question of allowing airport contract
[]


Don''t let some parties spoil ties: China tells India
[]


Maya hints will back govt 'to keep BJP out''
[]


Ready to protect Indian interests in South China Sea: Navy Chief
[]


Indian couple in Norway face over a year in jail for 'child abuse''
[]


Will act against Hafiz Saeed if India can prove charges in court: Pakistan
[]


PMO pushes cash transfer, BJP cries foul
[]


Ex-wing commander held, 'key link'' to Abhishek Verma
[]


Cong fields Sanjiv Bhatt''s wife against Modi
[]


Diplomat PM, liberal intellectual IK Gujral passes away
[]


Overjoyed stock markets soar to 19-month high
[]


Logjam ends, FDI vote in both Houses
[]


Ponty Chadha case: Police say Namdhari shot Hardeep
[]


Facebook arrests row reaches top court, CJI bench admits IT Act PIL
[]


Police ask Zee boss to join probe, get 2-day custody of executives
[]


India link in fresh US insider trading scam
[]


DMK with it, UPA 'sure of numbers''
[]


Jet stocks soar amid talk of stake sale to Etihad, SpiceJet denies deal report
[]


SP, BSP mellow stand, BJP sticks to voting rule
[]


Turn of the screw: India outplayed at own game
[]


On eve of all-party meet, govt fails to woo DMK on retail FDI
[]


Namdhari 'admits'' shot Hardeep, charged with attempt to murder
[]


India, China in passport, map row again
[]


Ranbaxy recalls generic Lipitor in US, stock tumbles
[]


Ponty killing witness Namdhari arrested in Uttarakhand
[]


Hold appointment of CBI chief: BJP to PM
[]


BJP sees Congress 'plot'' to defame CAG, PAC, House
[]


Order on info panels not a bid to rehabilitate judges: SC
[]


HC slams police 'casualness'', acquits 2 in 1996 Delhi blast
[]


TMC''s no-trust vote plan sinks without numbers
[]


No show on first day of Parliament winter session
[]


Caution, anger, sympathy in Pakistan
[]


Kasab calm and smiling before being hanged, declared dead at 8 am
[]


Op X-ecution: Kasab hanged, buried
[]


Women vow off Facebook, Sena justifies arrests
[]


Go now, Yashwant tells his party chief Gadkari
[]


First step to redemption, India go 1-0 up
[]


Shootout reported from another Ponty Chadha farmhouse when he was killed
[]


SC criticises 'casual'' govt approach to 2G auction
[]


Left junks no-trust motion but Opposition in talks to close ranks on voting rule
[]


Girls held for Facebook post on shutdown for Thackeray
[]


FDI policy cast in stone: govt
[]


Laid to rest at ground that marked his rise
[]


Police say farmhouse row behind killing of Ponty Chadha, brother
[]


State funeral for Bal Thackeray, calm city lines up
[]


Shiv Sena after Bal Thackeray may not be the same ever
[]


Bal Thackeray dies, Mumbai comes under security blanket
[]


GenNext kid shows how it is done in the old masters'' style
[]


India summons Irish envoy, tells Dublin to keep it informed on Savita Halappanavar probe
[]


One more spectrum auction by March: govt
[]


PM reaches out to BJP, invites top party leaders to dinner
[]


Sehwag returns with a run-a-ball ton, keeps India ahead on day one
[]


Dara Singh 'encounter'' suspect found shot dead
[]


Bal Thackeray still critical, Sena says he''s 'stable''
[]


'Vodafone completes trinity of infamous SC judgments'
[]


China unveils new leadership headed by Xi Jinping
[]


3 jawans among 5 killed in LoC encounter
[]


Shock, protests over Assam planter killing
[]


Maharashtra farmers join hands, slam Sharad Pawar
[]


India was aloof in our hard days: Suu Kyi
[]


Eight killed in firecracker unit explosion in UP
[]


Gurumurthy to Gadkari: pick party post or business
[]


Now, top US Gen in Afghanistan caught in Petraeus scandal
[]


Delhi rolls out red carpet for Suu Kyi
[]


Couple duped 2.5 lakh people of Rs 500-1,000 cr: Police
[]


Sangh denies Modi hand in Gadkari row
[]


Telecom firms cold to 2G auction
[]


Minister says multi-member CAG possible, then denies it
[]


Anna Hazare threatens fast again, will keep IAC name
[]


Bharathiar University will get new vice-chancellor only after tenure of suspended VC ends, minister says
['The minister was speaking to reporters after attending the 35th convocation of Bharathiar University.', 'The minister was speaking to reporters after attending the 35th convocation of Bharathiar University.', 'While the norms put down that the vice-chancellor search committee should be set up six months before the end of a VC’s tenure, the VC search committee has not yet been fully set up as Ganapathi’s tenure will end only in March. Anbalagan said this was because Ganapathi was temporarily suspended and not permanently removed from his post.', 'While there have been concerns from academicians that the selection of the government nominee for the VC search committee was being delayed inordinately, Anbalagan denied any such delays.', 'While applications for five vacant administrative posts have been received, the process of selecting people for the posts has been in a standstill. When asksed about this, Anbalagan said measures would be taken to appoint members for the posts for which applications have been scrutinised completely.', 'Mangat Ram Sharma said new vice-chancellor for the university would be appointed only after March when the tenure of the former VC ends.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


40 ‘bike taxis’ seized in Coimbatore
['The regional transport office here seized around 40 two-wheelers that were illegally used as bike taxis, claiming to be part of cab some aggregators.', 'After seizing many privately owned vehicles being illegally operated as tourist taxis, the transport office has now begun cracking down on bikes which are operating as bike taxis.', 'Additionally, these vehicles functioned without fitness certificates and enhanced insurance premiums which made it dangerous if they were involved in accidents,” he said. “They also do not insist on helmets for their clients,” Krishnamoorthy said.', 'Many autorickshaw drivers, who end up bearing more expenses like enhanced third party insurance premiums, applying for fitness certificates every year and get autorickshaw driver badges, said these bike taxis ate into their business.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Parents of HIV+ve kid refuse treatment at government hospital in Coimbatore
['Fearing backlash from authorities of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), parents of the two-year old child infected with HIV from an unconfirmed source, sought proper treatment for toddler in Tirupur district.', "The couple, who reside in Palladam taluk in Tirupur, don't want to take their child to the CMCH again.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Rural students gain confidence, urban counterparts connect with their roots as they swap schools
['Much to their surprise, Thirunavukkarasu, who is now pursuing Class IX in the government higher secondary school at Kalveerampalayam, has become regular in class and is evincing keen interest in studies.', 'His former teachers credit the transformation to the Partnership Between Schools (PBS) programme launched by the department of school education & literacy under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).', 'Aiming to reduce the dropout ratio in middle schools, the department has been executing the programme for the last two years. Under the programme, 20 class VIII students from a government middle school in rural areas are taken to a nearby urban government school and students from urban schools visit rural schools. A total of 18 schoolsnine urban and nine rural schoolswere selected for the academic year.', 'Students from rural areas are afraid of getting out of village and dealing with the urban environment, and that was identified as one of the causes of high dropout, an SSA official in charge of executing the programme said. “Under the programme, students from rural parts would attend classes in urban schools for six days while their counterparts will visit rural schools. The students would also be taken on a local trip to give them the feel of the new environment,” she said.', 'During the course, while rural students were exposed to smart classes and laboratories, urban students attended classes under trees and exposed to the rural environment. “Rural students were surprised by the transportation facilities in the city, big playgrounds and laboratories. Urban students realised how they were in a better position and started assisting rural students. At the end of the day, both got exposed to different environments and benefited,” the official added.', 'Also, the number of students, who dropped out came down from 2,222 in 2016-17 to 2,034 in 2017-18 in Tirupur and Coimbatore revenue districts.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


22-year-old woman kidnapped for marrying lover
['Police have launched a search for a 22-year-old woman, who was kidnapped by her family on Saturday after she married a man she was in love with.', 'COIMBATORE: Police have launched a search for a 22-year-old woman, who was kidnapped by her family on Saturday after she married a man she was in love with.', 'The woman’s relatives visited the house on Saturday. “Her father Sennimalai, 55, mother Vijayakumari, 59, and brother S Ragupathy, 27, met her and requested her to go with them. When she refused, they picked up a quarrel with Sathish and attacked him. The trio dragged Suganya from the house and left the place,” the officer told TOI.', 'Government Hospital.', 'Police have registered a kidnap case against Suganya’s family and are investigating. They have formed a special team to find her.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Oscar for period film a blow for menstrual hygiene
['Muruganantham, who already shot to fame with his biopic Padman that featured Akshay Kumar, wanted to offer something new when this film’s team approached him. “Padman was about my early life and struggles, including my wife calling me a psycho and leaving me. Since it was a commercial film it also could delve deep into the extent of stigma that exists,” said Muruganantham. “So, I suggested they make a film purely on how this machine transforms lives of women and girls in an extremely backward village in the country. I had already planned to install a machine in Hapur, and suggested they follow me. I said the plan could fail too, but they agreed,” he added.', 'Muruganantham revealed that many shots of women being trained and even interacted with, were shot with a hidden camera. “This film showcases the real India,” he said.', 'Period. End of Sentence. was nominated along with Black Sheep, End Game, Lifeboat and A Night At The Garden. “Honestly, this film won because of the female members of the jury. The taboo regarding menstruation exists across the world, even among the educated,” said Muruganantham.', 'More than excited, the social entrepreneur said he was grateful that people wanted to make films about his movement and the issue. “The films, and the awards they bag, garner national and international awareness to a massive extent. The number of people they reach out to in a couple of weeks or months, on my own I would take 20 years. And in India, people prefer seeing to reading. So, I consider these films as awareness creation tools,” he added.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


58-year-old man killed by 42-year-old friend
['Neighbours rushed Subramani to the Pollachi Government Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead.', 'Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) under Indian Penal Code (IPC).', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Rs 1.2 crore sanctioned to build 12 classrooms in government schools
['Ten classrooms will be constructed on plains and two in hilly areas using the fund, an SSA official said. While Rs 9.8lakh has been sanctioned for each classroom on plains, Rs 23.28lakh has been sanctioned for those in hilly areas.', 'The official said the funds were allocated based on the needs and requirement of government middle schools in each state. “Earlier, we were calling for requirements from schools and sent officials to visit the schools and selected those in need of infrastructure. Now, the list is generated based on the details filled in the District Information System for Education (DISE). Those schools with immediate needs would be prioritised and funds would be allocated for them,” the official told TOI.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Man kills friend in drunken brawl
['COIMBATORE: Police on Monday arrested a 22-year-old man in connection with murder of his friend at Madukkarai Market Road in the city.', 'Police identified the deceased as S Biji, 21, a resident of Ooty, who was a student at a private college here. “On Sunday night, after consuming liquor, Biji and his friend J Mujipur Rahman were roaming around the city on a two-wheeler. They stopped near Madukkarai Market Road and were having a conversation. At one point, Rahman tried to take cash from Biji’s pocket. When Biji resisted, a dispute broke out and Rahman, suddenly, hit Biji on his head with a rod,” an investigating officer said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Pollachi police secure three men for harassing college girl
['The police were on the lookout for another man who is absconding.', 'The accused have been identified as N Sabarirajan, 25, N Sathish, 29,T Vasanthakumar, 25, and K Thirunavukkarasu, 26. Thirunavukkarasu was absconding, police said.', 'According to the police, Sabarirajan and the victim were friends. On February 12, the accused requested the student to come out of her college during the lunch break to meet him. She met him outside the college where he had been waiting for her in his four-wheeler.', 'As the accused continued to blackmail her with the video demanding money, the victim informed her parents and a complaint was registered.', 'The police registered a case.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Drunk youth murders friend in Coimbatore
['The accused has been identified as J Mujipur Rahman of Echanaari. He murdered his friend, S Biji, 21 of Ooty, who was studying in a private college in Coimbatore.', 'The accused has been identified as J Mujipur Rahman of Echanaari. He murdered his friend, S Biji, 21 of Ooty, who was studying in a private college here.', 'On Sunday, Rahman and Biji went out to consume liquor. After consuming liquor, they were riding on a two-wheeler aimlessly.', 'They stopped the two-wheeler on the Madukkarai market road. In the middle of a conversation, the accused attempted to take cash from Biji’s pocket.', 'A fight broke out between them when Biji resisted. Rahman hit Biji on his head with a rod, inflicting severe injuries on him.', 'Passersby rushed Biji to a nearby hospital and alerted the Podanur police.', 'On Monday morning, he died in the hospital without responding to treatment.', 'The police registered a murder case against Rahman and arrested him. He was remanded in judicial custody.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Oscars 2019: Tamil Nadu man on whom award-winning documentary ‘Period. End of Sentence’ is based thanks women on jury
['Muruganantham said the award for the documents was a pleasant surprise. He thanked women members on the award jury.', 'Speaking to TOI on Monday, Muruganantham said he would not get carried away by awards and accolades. “I have not hung a single award on my walls, including the Padma Shri,” he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


DMK scared of ‘mega alliance’: S P Velumani
['State municipal administration minister S P Velumani said the DMK was scared of the mega alliance formed by AIADMK in the state for the Lok Sabha elections.', 'Responding to criticisms directed at AIADMK for aligning with BJP and PMK, Velumani said AIADMK was not browbeaten to enter into an alliance with BJP. Neither was joining hands with PMK opportunistic as alleged by opposition parties, he said. “All these criticisms about the alliance from our political rivals stem from the fear of losing elections,’’ he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Farmer, son, relative killed in car accident
['A 52-year-old farmer, his son and a relative were killed after the car they were travelling in crashed into a truck on Pollachi-Palakkad Road near Dharmapuram bridge on Sunday morning.', 'The bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem on Sunday afternoon.', 'Traffic was affected on the stretch for more than half-an-hour. The Pollachi taluk police removed the vehicles from the road.', 'Police have registered a case against truck driver S Unnikrishnan of Palakkad.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


‘Vijay Fans Club’ Facebook group hacked
['Bangladesh-based hackers have hacked Facebook groups ‘Vijay Fans Club’ and ‘Ilayathalapathy Vijay’. Claiming themselves as ‘Wizard Squad - Bangladeshi Hacking team’, they have also posted messages in the name of ‘Sagor Ahmed’.', 'Vicky started a Facebook account ‘Kovai district Thalaimai Thondarani Vijay Makkal Iyakkam’ a few years ago. He then created the two Facebook groups. While ‘Vijay Fans Club’ has 3.80 lakh followers, ‘Ilayathalapathy Vijay’ has 3.78 lakh followers.', 'The cybercrime cell police have taken up the case and investigations are on.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Women constables pool in Rs 2 lakh to help batchmate
['The 1997-batch women police constables, who are serving as head constables in Coimbatore city and rural police now, pooled in Rs 2 lakh in cash and handed it over to one of their batchmate, who has been taking treatment for breast cancer.', 'COIMBATORE: The 1997-batch women police constables, who are serving as head constables in Coimbatore city and rural police now, pooled in Rs 2 lakh in cash and handed it over to one of their batchmate, who has been taking treatment for breast cancer. Thirteen women head constables visited Asthampatti in Salem on Sunday and handed over the cash to their batchmate.', 'The batchmate was earlier working in Coimbatore and later transferred to Salem city police. She was diagnosed with breast cancer a few years ago.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Fire destroys 50 acres of forest in tiger reserve buffer zone
['A major fire in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris destroyed at least 50 acres of forest land on Saturday evening.', 'UDHAGAMANDALAM: A major fire in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris destroyed at least 50 acres of forest land on Saturday evening.', 'About 300 firefighters, including forest officials and volunteers, were struggling to control the fire that spread to Mayar, Masinagudi, Marganbetta, Achakarai and Bokkapuram.', 'The department suspects it to be man-made. “Fire breaking out simultaneously in five different areas, that too deep inside the forest, is something very unusual. We suspect the involvement of anti-social elements,” MTR deputy director Pushpakaran told TOI.', 'Strong wind in the hills favours fire to spread quickly to the neighbouring area. Also, dried-up lantana and grass catch fire easily.', 'The department has announced a reward of Rs 10, 000 for anyone, who provides tip-offs about the miscreants responsible for the fire.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Arsonists to be held under Goondas Act
['Fire is still raging at Karadimadai and Mangalapalayam east beat forest areas in the district, where flames broke out for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Forest department’s field staff are trying to bring the fire under control.', 'On Saturday, fire had broken out at Ettimadai, Karadimadai and Mangalapalayam east beat forest areas in the Madukkarai forest range. After 10 hours of struggle, the field staff, along with fire watchers, had put out the fire.', 'Meanwhile, even three days after fire broke out in Yercaud and Karunkali forest areas in Salem district, the forest department has not been able to bring the flames under control. Because of the fire, vehicles are not allowed to travel to Yercaud via Asthampatti and Gorimedu route.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Retired SSI murdered by 42-year-old son
['A 70-year-old retired special sub-inspector of police was murdered by his 42-year-old son at Anna Nagar in Irugur here on Sunday. The city police arrested the murderer and recovered a knife used for the murder.', 'The deceased was identified as S Subramani of Anna Nagar at Irugur. He worked as a SSI at Singnallaur police station and retired from service in 2006. He was living with his wife Padmini and son Senthilkumar.', 'Police said Senthilkumar, a drunkard, had separated from his wife 10 years ago. He was jobless and often fought with his father for money to buy liquor. On Sunday afternoon, Senthilkumar came home in an inebriated condition. When Subramani questioned him, Senthilkumar took a knife and stabbed his father on his chest and thigh. Subramani died on the spot. Neighbours alerted Singanallur police who came to the house and arrested Senthilkumar and seized the knife.', 'Subramani’s another son and daughter are married, and they are living separately with their families.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


NGO turns urban wasteland into flourishing vegetable garden
['A piece of open space reserved (OSR) land near a busy residential area at Thudiyalur, which was overgrown with thorny bushes and stinking of garbage, is now producing organic vegetables, thanks to a city-based NGO.', 'Local residents, who used to avoid the place at any cost, now find a stroll through the vegetable garden refreshing.', 'NGO Helping Hearts had signed a memorandum of understanding with the city corporation to convert the 50-cent land at VKL Nagar into a vegetable garden one-and-a-half-year ago.', 'The NGO decided not to use chemicals in the garden from the beginning. “We fed our plants organic manure and have been using organic pesticides like neem oil to get rid of harmful insects. For watering the plants, we have placed a 6,000l tank, which is filled whenever the corporation supplies water to the locality. As it is sufficient to water the plants for only a day, we have been purchasing water. We plan to set up a rainwater harvesting system in the garden,” Ganesh said.', 'The garden is growing and now giving in abundance. Helping Hearts is harvesting about 2kg vegetables a day, which is used to prepare nutritious food for the inmates of its old-age homes.', 'The whole ambience of the area has changed after the garden was set up, said V Sathish Balaji, a resident and the managing trustee of Restoring Nature Trust. “This land was once a den of anti-social elements. Now, peacocks and squirrels visit the place,” he added.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Coal India hikes prices of coal produced by Western Coalfields by 10%
[]


IIM-Ahmedabad to host third edition of India Finance Conference
[]


Natural gas: Reliance Industries under spotlight as FinMin wants cap on price hikes to protect consumers
[]


Clariant Chemicals to buy masterbatch business of Plastichemix Industries for Rs 135 cr
[]


Sensex falls 56 pts to 2-wk low, WPI inflation data raises RBI rate hike risk
[]


Amitabh Bachchan, Hrithik Roshan jump on Twitter platform
[]


SBI advance tax payment down 33 pct at Rs 1,130 cr, HDFC soars 16 pct
[]


Unprecedented boom via mobility coming, 37 pct of India Inc sees it as IT priority: IDC
[]


WPI inflation in India soars to 14-month high of 7.52 pct in November, set to hit RBI rate cut stance
[]


Shocker: Air India Delhi-New York flight passengers confined in plane at IGI for 6 hours
[]


SpiceJet eyes potential investor soon, inks pact with Tigerair
[]


GSK to spend $1 bn to raise stake in Indian drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd
[]


BSE Sensex extends losses, down 36 points, banking and FMCG shares fall
[]


Rupee eases by two paise against 62.14 vs US dollar
[]


Season's first: Fog disrupts operations at IGI airport, 25 flight delayed
[]


Irda's revised guidelines give new lease of life for insurance companies
[]


Overhauling rules to protect investors from 'insiders'
[]


Regulators tune in to Bitcoin buzz for policies on virtual money
[]


Supply-chain bottlenecks led to higher retail inflation in November
[]


Fliers from Kolkata, Chennai airports to pay high user fees
[]


Stock market outlook: 'RBI, US Fed policy moves key for stock markets this week'
[]


Five blue-chip firms lose Rs 22,582 crore in market capitalisation, ONGC share price lead loser
[]


Phaneesh Murthy to offer consultancy services after getting sacked at iGate
[]


Solar power costs trend down, wind blows away tariff advantage
[]


Markets in free fall after poll vault, BSE Sensex down 281 pts
[]


Doughtnut major Krispy Kreme opens first doughnut retail outlet in Delhi
[]


Gold price rebounds by Rs 230 to to Rs 30,930 in Delhi
[]


Kingfisher Airlines dues: Income-Tax  Dept asserts first claim on dues recovery from Vijay Mallya's firm
[]


FM P Chidambaram calls for high level of probity in capital market
[]


Amritanandamayi Math among 240 irregular tax exemption cases
[]


After long wait, Air India set to gain entry into Star Alliance
[]


Chit fund menace: Mamata writes tough bill for promoters
[]


Residential space: Chennai poised for take off
[]


Real estate: Soft launches can lead to a hard landing
[]


NSEL crisis: PwC to conduct special audit of MCX
[]


USFDA-hit Indian pharma looks for whistleblowers
[]


Veerappa Moily hints at moderation in diesel, LPG price hikes
[]


Continuity of rise in AUMs in doubt, says mutual fund industry
[]


Tata Motors global sales down 19 pct in November
[]


Indian rupee slips under 62 vs US dollar, posts biggest weekly loss in five
[]


Market Outlook: BSE Sensex may continue to fall ahead of RBI, US Fed meets
[]


BSE Sensex plunges 210 pts today, marks biggest weekly fall in five ahead of RBI, US Fed meets
[]


Metro projects in India cheapest in the world: govt
[]


November inflation shock cements calls for RBI rate hike
[]


Torrent Pharmaceuticals to acquire formulation biz of Elder for Rs 2,000 cr
[]


Tata Motors shares cheapest export-based bet, Sesa Sterlite shares lead overall
[]


Prospect of rate hike after inflation surge hits rupee, bonds
[]


DoT invites application for 2G spectrum auction starting January 23
[]


Walmart names Krish Iyer as head for India business
[]


Sensex trims initial losses, still down 122 points on weak IIP data
[]


Rupee drops for 3rd day, slips to 62.16 against US dollar
[]


Nokia wins appeal to transfer Chennai plant to Microsoft
[]


India launch of AirAsia to be delayed beyond January
[]


MMTC to get three weeks notice before any liquidation of Jignesh Shah's Financial Technologies shares
[]


Raghuram Rajan-headed FSDC panel expresses concern over bad loans
[]


Industrial production in India shrinks 1.8 pct in October, RBI Guv Raghuram Rajan underlines inflation battle
[]


Retail inflation jumps to 9-month high at 11.24 pct in November
[]


BSE Sensex falls 246 pts ahead of IIP, inflation data, Tata Motors share price slumps
[]


Allied Blenders and Distillers all set to enter US market with Officer's Choice Whisky
[]


Court lifts Nokia India factory freeze in tax dispute, paves way for Microsoft deal
[]


At Harvard, Ratan Tata 'confused and humiliated': Gazette
[]


Indian stocks seen rising over 13 pc to new highs after 2014 LS polls
[]


India 5th largest exporter of black money between 2002-11: report
[]


Reliance Jio Infocomm issued 2.2 cr numbers for telecom services
[]


GMR-Megawide consortium set to win $400 mn Philippine airport contract
[]


BSE Sensex continues to decline for 3rd day, drops 131 pts ahead of inflation data
[]


India rupee down 38 paise against dollar to 61.63
[]


Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio deal a positive for the Indian telecom market, say analysts
[]


Award of bank licences likely to be delayed: Bimal Jalan
[]


Dangerous to postpone important legislation for post-election: Rajan
[]


Govt staff, judges to come under purview of insider trading norms
[]


Don't try to take us for a ride: Supreme Court warns Subrata Roy's Sahara Group
[]


A first in 9 mths, bank deposit growth outstrips credit offtake
[]


New General Motors chief Mary Barra seen as winner early in her career
[]


Sebi panel proposes stricter insider trading norms
[]


After Rs 1,773-cr fine, CCI orders fresh probe into Coal India
[]


Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd public offer size likely between Rs 400-1,000 cr
[]


Telecom operators owe Rs 17,980 cr to govt, but is under litigation
[]


Hero MotoCorp acquires 60 per cent stake in JV with Magneti Marelli
[]


RBI to infuse additional Rs 10,000 cr liquidity on Friday
[]


India's sovereign rating may be pressured if polls end in hung Parliament: SandP's
[]


Govt of the day pays price for high inflation: P. Chidambaram
[]


Heineken inches past Vijay Mallya to become top shareholder in United Breweries
[]


India Inc strikes deals worth nearly $27 bn in Jan-Nov 2013
[]


Exports up 5.86 pc in November, trade deficit narrows
[]


Most Popular YouTube Ads of 2013: Old Spice, Google, Samsung and many more
[]


Raghuram Rajan: Political parties would have to work together to meet economic challenges
[]


High inflation in November set to keep pressure on RBI over interest rate hike
[]


No compromise on fiscal consolidation, vows P Chidambaram
[]


BSE Sensex down 90 points to 21,164
[]


India rupee snaps 5-day gain, down 29 paise at 61.33 vs dollar
[]


Govt to push big-ticket sell-offs in last quarter
[]


Nokia may end up with smaller bill as overlap of tax cases offers wiggle room in I-T dispute
[]


Power Grid Corporation FPO share price set at Rs 90/share, govt to get Rs 1,600 cr
[]


Gold price slips Rs 30, silver price jumps Rs 830 on fresh buying, global cues
[]


Indian rupee up 9 paise at four-month high of 61.04 against US dollar
[]


'Indians feel themselves most hard working after Americans'
[]


Hiring level down during second half in metropolis: TeamLease
[]


Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio Infocomm announce infra sharing agreement
[]


LPG cylinder price hiked by Rs 3.46 per cylinder as govt raises dealers' commission
[]


Profit-booking drags BSE Sensex down over 71 pts, NTPC shares tank 11 pct
[]


Fortune India 500 list: Indian Oil Corp Ltd tops again, Reliance Industries at No. 2
[]


India's domestic car sales dip 8 pct, motorcycles up 1.4 pct in November, 2013: SIAM
[]


Indian rupee up 15 paise vs US dollar
[]


BSE Sensex down 49 points, NSE Nifty flat at 0.24 pct
[]


Sell drugs at govt rates, not higher prices mentioned on box, says SC
[]


State poll results fuel market rally, Sensex hits record high
[]


Policy paralysis has hurt growth of general insurance
[]


SBI gets govt nod for Rs 9,576-cr QIP issue, with riders
[]


Keep industry and banking separate, Parliamentary panel tells RBI
[]


Mutual funds equity folio closures near 4 lakh in November
[]


Indian food served to guests at Bhutan royal wedding
[]


France forces chefs to confess boil-in-the-bag fare
[]


How you hold your drink categorise you as 'flirty'' or 'playboy''
[]


UK curry competition proves too hot to handle
[]


Secret of cooking the perfect boiled egg 'cracked'
[]


Now, a super broccoli that protects heart, prevents cancers
[]


Denmark imposes 'fat tax' to curb unhealthy eating habits
[]


Crunchy crickets going mainstream in Australia?
[]


Mustard is nature's secret to help you go from 'fat to fit'
[]


Moderate alcohol intake could cut asthma risk
[]


Fruit juice can actually up cancer risk: scientists
[]


Precious Sips
[]


It's ready, steady, cook at world curry event in the UK
[]


Grape juice versus red wine
[]


Children with alcoholic parents likely to be driven to drink
[]


Flavour of the Season
[]


Child mimic parents when it comes to healthy food
[]


Snow and Amber
[]


At the Nizam''s Table
[]


Bread Winners
[]


High Tea With Elma
[]


Dhansak at  Heathrow
[]


Why ketchup squirts? 'Mystery cracked'
[]


Why people eat bad food and how they can counter it
[]


Indian wines to compliment spicy curries set to take Britain by storm
[]


Jamie Oliver launches own brand of 'ethically' sourced fish fingers
[]


Plant-based ice cream for lactose intolerance people hits European markets
[]


'Fruit drinks for kids contain just 5% fruit, some have none at all'
[]


Wine: State of mind
[]


Soul-searching chef Ferran Adria looks to Asia
[]


Plating up for September
[]


Spirited Traveller: Sydney's small bar boom
[]


China's wine fund aims to raise $156 mln
[]


Some chilis with your cabernet? In Asia, sure
[]


World Chefs-Franco-Asian exotica on Singapore skyline
[]


Pizza Hut to serve wine in all outlets
[]


The Junglee Brew
[]


14 different ways to use beer in your household
[]


Recipe for chicken curry found in British cookbook dated 1796
[]


Dairy may not be as bad as you thought
[]


Use salad plates and don''t eat in front of TV to lose 2lb a month
[]


Now, 'electronic tongue' to taste Spain's sparkling wine!
[]


Drinking wine 'could help to stop sunburn'
[]


Top it Up, Ladies
[]


Scientists invent way to test authenticity of Scotch
[]


Fatty foods may help alleviate sadness
[]


Now, super tomatoes that can combat cancer
[]


Indian restaurant adjudged best South Asian restaurant in UK
[]


How to make fussy kids eat? Eat together the same meal!
[]


Soon, 'test-tube'' hamburger to feed the world
[]


India's food chain in deep change
[]


Barrel Rising
[]


Mindful eating may help you stay slim: Scientists
[]


A Piece of Mango Idli
[]


The Food Factor
[]


The Season of Exploding Mangoes
[]


Fruit juice may not be that good for your health
[]


Gordon Ramsay eats sushi off nude girl
[]


Ethnic eats, decor transport urban diners into hinterlands
[]


Drinking too much coffee 'can cause hallucinations'
[]


As temperatures rise, what to drink and how much
[]


Vodka-based drink 'Sniffer' launched
[]


Mushrooms can beat prostate tumours
[]


Tomatoes keep 'heart disease at bay'
[]


Now, a microwavable curry that whistles when cooked
[]


Gulf's first Spanish hotel to have Sanjeev Kapoor restaurant
[]


One pizza, price: Rs 9,999
[]


Now, a metal coffee bean to keep your drink warm for hours
[]


Farm-to-table is fine, but what comes next?
[]


Potatoes back on menus as healthy meal
[]


Coffee may not raise blood pressure: Study
[]


Diet soda doesn't raise diabetes risk
[]


Luxury ice cream latest hot fad for Indonesian middle-class
[]


Scientists develop 'mutant' orange with almost no seeds
[]


Blueberries could help fight the flab
[]


2,000-year-old delicacies found in Chinese tomb
[]


38.2 ft 'dosa' makes it to Guinness Book of Records
[]


Coffee addiction 'in your genes'
[]


You can indulge in chocolates, candies occasionally!
[]


54 beneficial compounds 'discovered' in maple syrup
[]


Indian cuisine shines in Chicago
[]


Ready-to-eat meat contains few cancerous compounds
[]


French cuisine gains ground on British dining tables
[]


Rasna to launch two new products
[]


Cakes, chocolates made of chilli 'burn off pounds'
[]


Grilled cheese, meatballs bid for Next Great Restaurant
[]


Coke to launch new global campaign 'Brrr' in India
[]


Australian honey 'world's most potent'
[]


A cup of tea can improve brain power
[]


Global Wines, Kimaya Fashions JV to sell Australian wine
[]


Drinking a glass of wine daily 'helps ward off dementia''
[]


Ban caramel soda over cancer concerns, demands group
[]


Indian dishes fifth in list of travellers' favourite cuisines
[]


World's oldest cake 'still intact'
[]


Pick the right chocolate
[]


Too much cheese can cause bladder cancer
[]


Diet soda may cause heart attacks, strokes
[]


Junk food 'lowers child's IQ'
[]


British puddings back in top spot, says survey
[]


Indian chef Manish Mehrotra introduces 'Spa Cuisine' in London
[]


Coffee- the stimulating beverage of our times
[]


World 'faces chocolate drought in 2014'
[]


Now UK company sells samosas to Indians
[]


Eating blueberries 'can guard against high BP''
[]


A big breakfast 'won''t help you shed those pounds''
[]


The bigger, fatter brunch
[]


Motimahal celebrates Kabab festival
[]


Banned energy drink gets new life as fuel source in Big Apple
[]


Now, 'intelligent'' wrapping that will tell you when food's going bad!
[]


Paul McCartney appeals for meat-free day in India
[]


Eating lots of red meat ups women's stroke risk
[]


Vegetable diet 'gives you daughters''
[]


Got a bad hangover? Try honey on toast!
[]


Scientists crack gene codes for strawberries
[]


Honey 'cure' for hangover
[]


A 'chocolate cure' for persistent cough?
[]


Mixing energy drinks with alcohol risky
[]


Beetroot juice can ensure more active lives
[]


Goji berries 'have a significant placebo effect''
[]


Tainted foods kill 3000, make 48 million sick yearly
[]


Beauty Candy: Candy, cosmetic or fancy campaign?
[]


Home delivered 'Diet in a box' latest UK slimming fad
[]


Pomegranate juice could be key to new cancer therapies
[]


Glasgow crowned Curry Capital of Britain
[]


Sugar-sweetened coffee could make your smarter
[]


Cranberry juice no help in urinary tract infections
[]


Carlsberg brings Sunday brunches to Delhi
[]


Some kiwi varieties may be less allergy-inducing
[]


MingSingh wokery and bar launched
[]


Tomatoes can keep prostate cancer away!
[]


New 'whipped cream with alcohol'' is the latest binge-drinking tool!
[]


Mexican distiller unveils 'world''s costliest'' tequila bottle worth $3.5 mn
[]


Chocolate may ease chronic fatigue syndrome: study
[]


Haute drinks for cold weather
[]


How toasts and croissants speed up ageing
[]


Organic veggies 'no healthier than conventional food'
[]


Glass of red wine daily may help fight diabetes: study
[]


Pomegranate juice 'can help combat kidney disease'
[]


Two glasses of wine can ensure successful aging
[]


Garlic could help treat hypertension
[]


Now enjoy sugarless cookies, chocolates and muffins
[]


Taxing junk food can also help curb obesity
[]


Drinking 100 pc fruit juice means higher intake of essential nutrients
[]


Sweet drinks increase risk of gout
[]


Red meat gourmets may be susceptible to cancer
[]


Peanuts during pregnancy may lead to later allergy
[]


Portugese wine family saves the grapes
[]


Drinking beet juice daily promotes brain health in older adults
[]


Sweet drinks widely available in schools
[]


Potato crisps can end worldwide water woes!
[]


Eat right this festive season
[]


'Ice Cube Diet' may not live up to its promises
[]


Decode world cuisine before you say bon apetit
[]


Britons ditch chocolates for nuts, dried fruits
[]


Probiotic drinks, yogurts 'do not aid digestion''
[]


Now, crunchy and spicy soy snacks to boost nutrition in kids
[]


Food, spices can excite, calm or rattle brain
[]


TGI Friday to have 19 outlets by 2015
[]


A toast to two bottles of whiskey that cost Rs 1.4 crore
[]


Tandoori trial
[]


Kidney friendly diet!
[]


ALA Omega 3 for expectant mothers and healthy baby
[]


Coming soon: A triple flavoured chewing gum!
[]


Body builder protein powder adds 10 yrs to life
[]


Santos pulls out of Indian oil and gas blocks
[]


Jindal Steel and Power shares tank over 6 pct on profit-booking
[]


China's service sector may exceed manufacturing for first time
[]


Indian rupee rises 28 paise to 2-month high at 61.13 against US dollar
[]


Gold price gains Rs 255 on low level buying in Delhi
[]


99 stocks hit 52-week high as Bharatiya Janata Party triumphs in Assembly polls, Axis Bank shares a hit
[]


PepsiCo appoints former Nokia executive D Shivakumar as India head
[]


HSBC sees India's fiscal deficit breaching 5% mark in FY14
[]


Raghuram Rajan blames global financial crisis for Indian economy's woes
[]


Phaneesh Murthy sues iGate for unfair termination from CEO post
[]


BSE Sensex, NSE Nifty hit record highs after Bharatiya Janata Party sweeps polls
[]


40 pc of Middle East's UHNW wealth held by 157 billionaires: Wealth-X
[]


Indian rupee now at its real value: Arvind Mayaram
[]


Gold futures prices down on weak global cues
[]


Mukesh Ambani hints at venture between Reliance Industries and Bharti Airtel
[]


2G case: SC issues contempt notice against Sahara chief Subrata Roy, others
[]


Rupee trims initial gains vs dollar, still up 32 paise at 61.09
[]


BSE Sensex rises to record high of 21,377 on Assembly election results
[]


Irda moves to break nexus between insurers, dealers
[]


Microsoft mum as Nokia struggles to resolve tax dispute
[]


Indian banks make most of RBI's FCNR deposit scheme, HDFC Bank emerges biggest player
[]


Stock markets to see strong up move this week on Bharatiya Janata Party win: Experts
[]


Bengaluru real estate gets maximum private equity investment of Rs 1979 cr
[]


Encouraging signs on regulatory front: Vodafone Group CEO
[]


Sebi issues notices to 33 entities for alleged irregularities
[]


M-cap of 6 blue chip firms rises Rs 34,383 cr, Coal India and ICICI Bank lead
[]


IT spend on mobility to grow 15%, security and privacy top concerns
[]


Pension fund investment corpus to cross $1 tn by 2025: Report
[]


After 20 years, WTO members agree to first global trade deal
[]


India Inc exporters welcome World Trade Organisation pact on trade
[]


BSE Sensex scales to 5-week high as exit polls, GDP data fuel rally
[]


World Trade Organisation adopts Bali package, to move ahead on Doha round
[]


Apple Inc. wants Samsung Electronics to pay $22 mn for legal bills
[]


Commercial property: Opening up to retail investors
[]


Real estate: Bricks, mortar and a billion bytes in between
[]


RBI seeks intelligence on bank licence applicants
[]


Trust set up for making political donations, allowed under Companies Act: Birla
[]


Capital gains tax to push up Nokia's Rs 21,153-cr tax liability in India
[]


Rs 400 cr loan 'fraud': SBI gives clean chit to Shyamal Acharya
[]


Setback for Vijay Mallya as court accepts Kingfisher Airlines winding-up petition
[]


World Trade Organization addresses India's concerns, issues revised draft
[]


A cut in CAD and rising farm output turns India into 7th most economically confident in world, says Ipsos
[]


NSEL crisis: Mumbai Police to file chargesheet by month-end
[]


BSE Sensex up 39 points at one-month high before poll results, FII buying hits Rs 1 tn
[]


Record Indian stock market rally masks economic concerns
[]


Global trade deal seen 'very close', India makes World Trade Organisation sweat
[]


Recovering rupee gives P Chidambaram relief ahead of Budget
[]


Carlsberg strengthens foothold in world's largest beer mkt
[]


PricewaterhouseCoopers gets Supreme Court notice over 'financial malpractices'
[]


Qantas relegated to junk status by Standard and Poor's after shock loss warning
[]


BSE Sensex edges higher, Hero MotoCorp, Bajaj Auto gain
[]


Indian rupee up 13 paise at 61.62 against US dollar
[]


SKS Microfinance denies largest shareholder charge on proxy register
[]


Bali deal hinges on who blinks first, India or the US
[]


Fifty companies owe more than Rs 40,000 crore to banks
[]


NSEL crisis: Committed to recovering money from defaulters, says Jignesh Shah
[]


Gold price bounces back by Rs 450 to Rs 31,250
[]


Fish oil increases risk of colon cancer in mice
[]


Ginger can reduce muscle strain after workouts
[]


Pomegranate juice can reduce beer bellies
[]


Eat your way to a strong body, healthy heart
[]


Blueberries can ward off heart disease
[]


Fizzy drinks light up pain sensors set off by spicy food
[]


Sugary sports drinks not as healthy as thought
[]


Mixing Scotch whisky with Darjeeling tea
[]


Can resisting cravings and desires be fun?
[]


Indian scientists grow world''s first GM "protato" spuds
[]


Cacao genome sequencing, a boon to chocolate lovers
[]


More coffee lessens risk of gout: study
[]


Cure for peanut allergy may lie in peanuts
[]


The Meaner Meen
[]


Bursting the bubble
[]


Fish oils work against diabetes
[]


Cranberry juice can block Staph infections
[]


Forbidden black rice could be next superfood
[]


Fortified noodles for Thailand, fortified soya sauce for China
[]


Firefighting aircraft needed, greens tell Modi, Sitharaman
['After the Bandipur blaze raged for more than 50 hours, the activists’ emails said use of best resources is imp...', 'That a fire can destroy more than 7,000 acres of wooded land should not come to as a surprise to anyone, least of all to forest officials. This disaster should, however, make foresters aware of the need to be better prepared to prevent and counter deadly blazes. They were woefully short of resources while attempting to douse the blaze, giving local tribesmen shrubs to use as fire beaters and using water flasks and sand in an attempt to put out the blaze themselves. The state government should ensure that its foresters are prepared to meet such challenges when they arise again.', 'After the Bandipur blaze raged for more than 50 hours, the activists’ emails said use of best resources is imperative to stand any chance of dousing such infernos. They worried that such infernos could threaten core tiger habitat in reserves.', 'Helicopters and planes used to combat fire use water foams or fire retardants to douse a blaze.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


IAF helicopters join battle, Bandipur fire finally brought under control
['MYSURU: Two helicopters deployed on Monday helped foresters and firemen bring the blaze at the Bandipur Tiger Reserve under control by 4.30pm, scotching fears that the fire was out of control and after spreading to Mudumalai overnight.', 'He denied reports that the helicopters had a capacity of only 500 litres of water each and had to head to Mysuru because they were running out of fuel.', 'Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Punati Sridhar admitted that fresh blazes had broken out in five separate pockets on Monday but said they had no connection to the main fire.', 'Denying reports that fire has gobbled up a vast area of Bandipur, PCCF Sridhar stated only 3,000 hectares (around 7,400 acres), and not 4,000 hectares (8,600 acres), of forest had been destroyed by recent blazes in the Bandipur area.', 'The forest department used its Twitter page to issue an appeal to members of the public, asking for donations of food items, 5-litre drinking water cans, ready-to-eat food for firefighters, lightweight torches, ointment, glucose, fruits (like bananas and apples) and ORS sachets. It said the items could be handed over at a special counter in the Mysuru zoo.', 'Those hoping to voluntarily assist the forest department may contact the nearest forest offices, it said.', 'Ineffective fire lines?', 'Locals and forest experts on Monday accused foresters of being responsible for the blaze spreading so fast: They alleged that the fire engulfed vast tracts of land as the foresters had failed to properly demarcate the wooded region with fire lines (firebreaks), breaks in vegetation and combustible material to slow or stop the progress of a blaze. They said they suspected that foresters’ safety measures were not focused on the entire park but restricted to pockets in the reserve where the popular safari for visitors is conducted.', 'Officials rebutted the charge, saying all safety measures were in place.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Karnataka: After lull, fresh fires erupt in Bandipur tiger reserve
['MYSURU: After a lull on Sunday evening, fires broke out in pockets of Bandipur tiger reserve on Monday, sending authorities into a tizzy. Ground operations managed to extinguish the flames in Bandipur and Gopal Swamy Betta (GS Betta) ranges after IAF sorties proved ineffective. No fresh fires were sighted till late night.', 'Around the same time, further north, in GS Betta, isolated pockets were found burning. Three of the fires were spotted on the roadside, and two deep inside the range. Officials suspected criminal elements as the pockets were not contiguous. Nor were there fires in the neighbourhood which could have been a trigger. The fires were put out quickly. Until late evening, fire suppressants were being sprayed to prevent further blazes from the embers.', 'Following a nudge from CM HD Kumaraswamy, two IAF choppers pitched in with the firefighting. Taking off from Sulur air base, near Coimbatore, the choppers reached Bandipur around 2pm.', 'After three sorties each, they beat a hasty retreat to Mysuru as they ran out of fuel, sources said. The spraying was not effective either, they said, causing the operation to be cut short.', 'He said the fresh fires in different pockets were man-made.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Now, SSLC students can download hall tickets at exam centres
['Deputy director of public instruction, Mysuru Mamata said that all examination centres would have computer systems to allow students to download hall tickets at the last minute, if need arises. “Once the principal of the school that the student belongs to confirms his or her identity, the hall ticket can be downloaded from the server. Principals of those schools, the students of which will appear for the examinations at the centre, will be present there, so there will not be any problem,” Mamata told TOI.', 'Parents, and students, have greeted the initiative with audible sighs of relief. “Students forgetting hall tickets at home is a common problem. It merely adds to the last-minute anxieties of the students. The new system is welcome,” said Sumangala Vastrad, a resident of Chamundipuram.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


CITU protests against proposed closure of BSNL
['Association of Contract Workers, and CITU, have brought this problem to the notice of heads of association in New Delhi, but to no avail, said the protesters. “Employees must be paid their salaries at the earliest, and a minimum wage of Rs 18,000 must be paid to contract workers,” the activists said.', 'General secretary of CITU Jayaram, HS Jagadeesh and Balaji were present.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


H1N1 cases on the rise in parts of Shivamogga
['Locals alleged that H1N1 positive cases are on the rise in their area. They also alleged that a woman died of H1N1 fever at a private hospital in Udupi district but health department authorities denied any H1N1 deaths in the area.', 'Officials said they have taken up all the precautionary measures and are holding awareness drives in the entire hobli .', 'According to residents, since the past 10 days, several people in Mudugolla (Nagara) have been tested positive for H1N1. Many were rushed to Thirthahalli government hospital and a private hospital in Udupi district for treatment.', 'Meanwhile, incidents of monkey deaths have continued in the local forest. GP member BY Ravindra said that on Saturday morning a forester called him informing the death of a monkey.', 'Speaking to TOI, Dr Nagesh, district health officer, said there is no need to panic. “We have taken all precautionary steps. On Saturday we carried out an awareness drive in Mudugoppa (Nagara). We have enough stock of medicines,” he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Gulf airlines splash out over $100 bn as Boeing launches new jet
[]


Jabong, Puma launch digital fitness campaign with Chitrangada Singh
[]


Cooper Tire to try to save Apollo Tyres deal
[]


Vedanta Resources H1 core earnings, revenue fall
[]


Bhushan Steel CEO Atulya Kumar Verma arrested, new blast furnace area sealed
[]


GVK Power loss widens to Rs 57cr in Q2
[]


Twitter troll swarm sends JP Morgan running
[]


Sun Pharma raises 2013-14 revenue outlook to 25%
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra Q2 profit rises 9.7 pct at Rs 989 cr, beats estimates despite SUV sales slowdown
[]


Salary hikes for Indian employees expected at 11 pct in 2014, but inflation to cut it to just 2 pct
[]


ONGC Videsh H1 profit rises 14.4% to Rs 1,886 crore
[]


American Airlines and US Airways set to create world's biggest airline after settling lawsuit
[]


Now, buy Sachin Tendulkar T-shirts, coins and other merchandise from eBay
[]


Marks and Spencer takes stylish bid to India
[]


LandT Infra Finance warns investors against 'unscrupulous' entities
[]


GlaxoSmithKline Q3 net declines 33.73% to Rs 100.95 cr
[]


Supreme Court dismisses Essar Oil's plea to extend time to pay tax dues as Gujarat govt unwilling
[]


Godrej Consumer Q2 net profit up 22.39 pct at Rs 194.97 crore
[]


Japan Airlines reports problem with Boeing 787 Dreamliner battery on Helsinki-Tokyo flight
[]


Tata, Singapore Airlines incorporate airline venture
[]


Tata Group's Indian Hotels Q2 net loss at Rs 433.48 cr
[]


Apollo Tyres did not breach terms of Cooper Tire $2.5 bn deal, rules US judge
[]


Indian Oil Corp net profit dips 82 pct in Q2 on forex losses, subsidy
[]


Western Union celebrates Indian expatriate community with 'Send Yourself Home' campaign
[]


Sun TV Q2 net profit up 11.54 pct at Rs 169.16 cr
[]


ICICI Bank's Chanda Kochhar most powerful Indian businesswoman, says Fortune
[]


Tata Motors operating profit may beat estimates
[]


N Srinivasan-owned India Cements' Q2 sales dip, profit plunges
[]


ArcelorMittal Q3 profit higher than expected, Lakshmi Mittal optimistic about 2014 prospects
[]


Rupert Murdoch's Star Network to invest Rs 20,000 cr in India, ropes in MS Dhoni as brand ambassador
[]


Cognizant powers past TCS, Infosys again in revenue growth
[]


Intex to expand consumer durables range, eyes Rs 2,000 cr sales
[]


Bharti Airtel to acquire Warid's Congo operations
[]


Nestle to speed up salt reductions in food brands
[]


Air India Boeing 787 Dreamliner crisis: Windshield cracks during landing at Melbourne
[]


Sale of 5-kg LPG cylinders allowed at petrol pumps across India
[]


Vodafone India stake sellers liable to pay capital gains tax
[]


Hitachi eyes Rs 20K cr revenue from India by FY'15
[]


Dabur forays into packaged milk fruit shake segment with 'Real Fruit Shakes'
[]


Air India slashes top-level positions
[]


Big Retail in India gives SMEs a miss
[]


JSW Steel tests its mettle in rural market with retail plan
[]


Cooper Tire in tentative deal with workers over Apollo Tyres merger
[]


Piramal acquires OTC skincare brand Caladryl in India
[]


Vodafone India puts IPO plans on hold
[]


Commerce Minister Anand Sharma 'snubs' Wal-Mart Asia chief, cancels meeting
[]


DLF Q2 net profit drops by 28% to Rs 100 cr
[]


ICICI Lombard GI posts Rs 359 crore profit in H1 of FY14
[]


Suzlon Energy Q2 net loss narrows to Rs 782.37 cr
[]


Nestle India Q3 net up 6.6 per cent at Rs 285 crore
[]


Volkswagen launches new Jetta in India, prices it at Rs 13.70 lakh
[]


PVR Q2 net profit at Rs 27.66 crore
[]


Hit by rupee, Bharti Airtel Q2 net profit falls 29 per cent to Rs 512 cr
[]


Ranbaxy Laboratories posts Rs 454-cr loss in Q3 on Mohali plant forex woes
[]


Vodafone to raise Indian unit stake to 100 pct for Rs 10,141 cr
[]


India Inc slams Raghuram Rajan-led RBI repo rate hike, says will hit investments, growth
[]


Air India invites global tender for Airbus A-320
[]


General insurance industry may touch Rs three-lakh-cr by 2025: FICCI report
[]


Jindal Stainless Q2 net loss widens to Rs 412 cr
[]


Media and entertainment industry in South India to see CAGR of 16 per cent
[]


Max Life posts 11% growth in new business premium in H1
[]


Dabur India Q2 net profit up 23.4% at Rs 249.74 cr
[]


Sun Pharma says issues with USFDA at Caraco facility addressed
[]


Bharti Infratel Ltd Q2 net profit rises 12 pct to Rs 277 crore
[]


Tatas step up US lobbying on immigration, education issues
[]


Walmart resumes US lobbying on FDI in India
[]


30 pct textile units shut as of 2010-11, led to huge job losses: Assocham
[]


Indian IT's Big Four build $9 bn cash chest
[]


Coca Cola remains committed to USD 5 bn investment in India
[]


Air India's market share, passenger revenue grow in Q2 of 2013-14
[]


Festive season hiring may rise 5-12 pct: Experts
[]


Kids India 2013 starts in Mumbai
[]


Fresh off AirAsia, Singapore Airlines triumphs, Ratan Tata eyes Air India
[]


Wockhardt's Q2 profit more than halves, hit by export 'ban' from US, UK
[]


TVS Motor Q2 net profit jumps 97% to Rs 88.84 cr
[]


Telecom major Idea Cellular second quarter net profit surges, beats estimates
[]


Hindustan Media Q2 net up 14.95 pct at Rs 24.91 cr
[]


Arvind Ltd Q2 net up 39 pct at Rs 90.05 cr
[]


Tata Group, Singapore Airlines get FIPB nod, set for take off, Ratan Tata meets P Chidambaram
[]


Hyundai Motor Q3 profit beats estimates on China, Brazil
[]


LG Electronics misses Q3 estimates on weak phone business
[]


Jet Airways shares slump after record quarterly loss
[]


Indian economy: mobile phones to contribute $400 bn to GDP by 2020
[]


Hero MotoCorp Q2 net up 9.26% at Rs 481.41 cr
[]


ACC Q3 net profit halves to Rs 119 crore
[]


Ramco Cements July-Sept net profit down 86% to Rs 18cr
[]


Exide Industries Q2 net profit declines marginally at Rs 118.63 cr
[]


Sistema Shyam Teleservices rolls out 3G plus telecom network across all circles
[]


Intel Capital invests $65 mn in tech firms
[]


Mahindra Comviva strengthens global leadership team
[]


Cairn India quarterly net profit jumps 46 pct to Rs 3,385.08 crore
[]


Wipro Ltd quarterly  profit up 20 pct at Rs 1,932 cr, revenue growth lags rivals
[]


Fund raising via debt placement rises over eight-fold in September
[]


LandT Infotech eyes Polaris Financial Technology's services biz in $400 mn deal
[]


Zee Entertainment Q2 profit jumps 26% to Rs 236.31 crore
[]


Whirlpool Q2 net profit declines 41.72% to Rs 16.54 cr
[]


Dabur promoter Burmans enter healthcare, partner UK firm
[]


Toyota launches limited edition Fortuner for Rs 24.3 lakh
[]


Pawan Hans likely to see higher margins: India Ratings
[]


Kumar Mangalam Birla's UltraTech Cement quarterly profit falls 52% to Rs 264 cr
[]


International toy trade fair to be held in Mumbai from Oct 24
[]


Probe into Wal-Mart investment now moves to RBI
[]


NComputing fastest growing co in enterprise client device mkt in Q2: IDC
[]


PVR sells Anupam Complex to mystery buyer for Rs 52 cr, leases it back
[]


Bharti Airtel acquires 100 pct stake in Qualcomm founded 4G Wireless Business Services
[]


Google's quarter 3 beats expectations as ad volume grows, stock flirts $1,000 level
[]


Taj Madikeri, Westin Chennai Velachery among world's hot new hotels
[]


Canon India stakes big on digital homes, launches portable scanner
[]


TCS, Infosys Q2 results project good show by IT sector
[]


GSM mobile cos add 44 lakh new customers in Sept, Idea Cellular and Vodafone lead
[]


Walmart to pitch for private labels in sourcing norms
[]


Vodafone may invest more than $2 bn in India, says Kapil Sibal
[]


Aircel introduces new data tariffs, 7 days unlimited internet pack at Rs 27
[]


India Inc garners Rs 1,050 cr via IPOs in H1 of FY'14
[]


Rohini Nilekani: Rs 20 cr every year for philanthropy
[]


Reliance Industries quarterly operating profit may lag estimates
[]


Bharti Airtel raises ISD rates up to 80 pct, Idea Cellular by 25 pct
[]


Wipro, HCL in race for Rs 1,500 cr India Posts devices project
[]


Airbus chief Fabrice Bregier eyes overtaking Boeing in production by 2018
[]


Reliance Industries thrashes expert report on KG-D6 output fall
[]


Yamaha Motor delays Rs 1,500-cr Chennai plant by 1 year
[]


Tackle Mysuru’s water crisis quickly, Pratap Simha tells officials
['Simha reviewed works under JNNURM and AMRUT in Vijayanagar and Gokulam areas of the city along with Chamaraja MLA L Nagendra and expressed displeasure at the delay in construction.', 'Vijayanagara corporator MU Subbaiah, who accompanied them, alleged that even before the arrival of summer, Vijayanagara I, II and IV Stages are facing an acute water shortage. He alleged that water pumping is not being done scientifically.', 'Nagendra said in many places of his constituency, untreated water is being supplied and urged authorities not to supply it as this could pose health problems for residents. Authorities said they’re helpless due to technical issues and said once civil works of all proposed water tanks are completed, water scarcity will reduce.', 'Simha directed officers of Vani Vilas Water Works to supply water to various scarcity-hit areas at stipulated hours to ensure that residents don’t lose their sleep. He said that once all works under JNNURM and AMRUT are completed, the city won’t face a drinking water crisis for the next 25-30 years.', 'Pratap Simha urged forest department authorities not to disturb tribals in the forest and buffer zones. He said today forests are being saved by tribals, not forest department authorities. "Their habitats must be protected," he said.', 'He also took a dig at self-styled, progressive thinkers for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for washing the feet of pourakarmikas on Sunday. "The Prime Minister respected the dignity of labour. Is anyone ready to wash the feet of civic workers? We need to respect our Prime Minister for it instead of criticising him," he said.', 'He added that there are no takers for communism. "Except in Kerala, communists are disappearing everywhere," he said.', "L Nagendra alleged that the authorities didn't invite him to chief minister’s inspection of Devaraja Market recently to prevent him from seeking money to protect the heritage buildings. He alleged that the state government is not releasing any money for the renovation and restoration of Lansdowne Building and Devaraja Market.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Foresters struggle to extinguish fire in Muttati Range
['Raging inferno: Vast expanses of forest land has been destroyed by fire at Muttatti Range and at the foot of C...', 'Stating that the fire was the creation of miscreants, foresters said that they must have started the blaze in Bellibetta, Karighatta and Muttati. The forest department has roped in volunteers to douse the fire. However, there is a woeful shortage of manpower, which volunteers alone cannot offset. The undulating terrain of the landscape has further compounded difficulties in the operation. “Wildfires are very rare at the very beginning of summers. This makes us suspect that this could have been triggered by miscreants,” said a forest department official.', 'A senior forest department official called on the public to supplement their efforts in trying to extinguish the fire. “We cannot douse such an inferno by ourselves owing to shortage of manpower and the hilly landscape,” he added.', 'It appears as though forests across the Old Mysore Region have incurred some unbeknownst wrath. As fire in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve threatens to engulf the Madhumalai Forest in Tamil Nadu, a blaze left ten acres of woods at the foot of Chamundi Hills near Uttanahalli on the Mysuru-Nanjangud Road gutted on Monday. However, timely intervention by the personnel of the fire department checked the spread of the fire.', 'The fire, which personnel claimed was man-made, reportedly started between 12.30pm and 1pm. Residents of Uttanahalli immediately alerted the fire department, who rushed to the spot. It took the personnel nearly two hours to extinguish the blaze, and nearly five fire tenders had to be pressed into service.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Mysuru pourakarmikas’ wait for free breakfast continues
['Mysuru City Corporation is studying the lunch and breakfast schemes implemented by other urban local bodies in...', 'Sources in the civic agency said that the state government wanted breakfast provided at Rs 20 for each pourakarmika. “But no vendor is ready to provide breakfast for this sum. After failing to elicit any response from vendors to our first tender, we submitted a proposal to the government seeking a hike in the price, but it was rejected. The response to our second tender from vendors was also tepid, prompting the MCC to float a third tender,” said an official privy to the development.', 'Another source said that the civic agency’s efforts to provide food to the pourakarmikas from Indira Canteens met with disapproval from the workers. “A section of civic workers are demanding that a sum of Rs 600, the sum fixed by the government, be credited to their accounts. These are some of the pain points that have delayed the implementation of the scheme,” the official added.', 'Senior officials in the civic agency reiterated their commitment to the scheme, pointing out that the pourakarmikas were the real stakeholders of Swachh Mysuru. “They work indefatigably towards maintaining cleanliness in the city, and the MCC is very serious about the issue. The scheme to provide free breakfast for pourakarmikas has been proposed in all urban local bodies across the state. So, we will see how some of them have implemented this scheme,” a senior official said.', 'Mysuru mayor Pushpalatha Jagannath admitted to TOI that she was aware of the problem. “A section of the civic workers are unhappy with the current system wherein breakfast is being provided from Indira Canteens. That is the reason we are planning to roll out a new scheme. We will take a decision about the policy at the next MCC Council meeting. We are considering various options, and will arrive at a final decision soon,” Pushpalatha said.', 'Vice-president of the Pourakarmikara Sangha M Rajeeva said that the civic workers were aware that the MCC was in the earnest about carrying through on its promise to offer free breakfast. “But private vendors are unwilling to provide breakfast for that price. We will meet chief minister HD Kumaraswamy about the issue,” Rajeeva told TOI.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Hashtag a conspiracy by those who do not have the people’s confidence: Shobha
['The senior BJP leader, however, dubbed the hashtag and the social media campaign surrounding it a conspiracy, which she attributed to those who had failed to garner the people’s confidence.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Karnataka: Tiger spotted near Balehonnur town in Chikkamagaluru
['The tiger was found walking on the Balehonnur-Halasuru road.', 'According to the forest department sources, tigers have been spotted in the area many times. "They are very familiar. They were found even in the camera traps installed by the forest department in the area. But till now these tigers haven\'t attacked any human being or cattle," said a forest department official.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Karnataka: Bandipur fire doused, forest official confirms 'act of sabotage'
['Forest officials estimated that the fire had devoured at least 60% of the 70-sqkm GB Range.', 'BANDIPUR: A major fire that gutted thousands of acres of land in the Bandipur tiger reserve has been doused.', 'Karnataka\'s top forest official confirmed that an "act of sabotage" had caused the blaze.', 'Stumps of gutted trees and a thick carpet of ash was all that remained.', 'By late evening on Sunday, forest officials estimated that the fire had devoured at least 60% of the 70-sqkm GB Range, and affected many other stretches of the forest areas in the region. Forest officers are working on all options - including using fresh shrubs and sand - to douse the blaze.', "The fire couldn't spread to critical tiger habitat. Bandipur has the highest tiger population in India, hosting every fourth animal that's accounted for in the country.", 'Though the chief of the forest force on Sunday stated that the fire was man-made, the Karnataka government on Sunday declared its primary task was to control the fire.', "There were sporadic reports of fire in Bandipur over the past week before Saturday's fire razed thousands of acres of forestland. On Sunday, thick plumes of smoke continued to billow into the sky out of forest areas in GS Betta.", 'Foresters said conditions were ideal for a forest fire to spread rapidly. Dry grass and lantana fuelled the blaze fire as it quickly spread to various wooded areas, leaving devastation in its wake.', 'Stumps of gutted trees and a thick carpet of ash was all that remained of the dense underbrush and deciduous tree cover. Though foresters on Sunday said no animals had perished in the fire, TOI (see photographs) spotted the burnt antlers of deer, squirrels burned alive and at least one dead python in razed parts of the reserve.', 'Forest minister Satish Jarkiholi visited the spot on Sunday, made an inspection of the surrounding areas and held meetings with top forest officers including forest chief Sridhar.', 'Forest minister Satish Jarkiholi on Sunday toured the affected areas and held a meeting with forest officials, including forest chief Sridhar.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Modi govt implementing only what UPA govt had planned: Khader
['On the terror attacks, he stated that it was Indira Gandhi who dealt terrorism with an iron hand. “Modi has no such calibre,” he said.', 'He alleged that since the day CM Kumaraswamy took over the reins in the state, the BJP leaders are trying to destabilise the government.', 'He expressed confidence that JDS-Congress coalition will complete the five years in office.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Silk Board chief asks more farmers to take to sericulture
['Hanumantharayappa, who participated in the Reshme Krishi Mela at the Central Sericulture Research Training Institute (CSTRI), said that enhanced production of raw silk would help in boosting the economy of the nation. “This is especially true of Karnataka, which accounts for half of the total amount of silk produced in the country,” he added.', 'India was forced to import silk from China, japan and Russia owing to the shortfall inproduction of the fabric in the country, he said.', 'Chairman of the Central Silk Board KM Hanumantharayappa on Sunday faced some tough questions from farmers regarding the corpus of funds allocated by the central government for improving silk production in India. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has allocated Rs 2,163 crore for the development of sericulture. What has happened to these funds?” they asked him.', 'Dissatisfied with his reply, the farmers asked him to give accounts for the funds, and accused him of focusing more on silk reelers – those engaged in weaving cocoons into threads – than silk farmers.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Waste burning still rampant in Mysuru despite ban
['Burning of dry waste is a punishable offence.', 'According to residents, the burning is not restricted to any particular area, but carried out across the city. All these days, it was alleged that mostly destitutes and labourers were the ones who were burning the dry waste items including plastic because of prevailing cold weather. However, now it is being burnt in broad daylight.', 'Shamsuddin Suleman, a vendor on the MG Road, said the smell of burnt plastic envelopes the entire area in the morning. “They put fire to all the dry waste items. It often causes head ache. But everyone fear to raise voice,” he said.', 'Ajay S, a resident of Lingambudipalya, who is working with a private firm, said recently dry leaves were burnt even on the Lingambudi lake bed area. “It was done in early morning hours. On both sides of the ring road, people are seen putting fire to the dry waste and make localities fill with smoke.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Two thousand aspirants enrol on first day of Udyoga Mela in Mysuru, 300 get offer letters
['The senior JD(S) leader said that the state government was looking to impart training in skill development in every college in rural areas to improve chances of youngsters bagging jobs.', 'Expressing his delight with the response among the youngsters to the mela – more than 2,000 enrolled at the fair on Sunday – Devegowda exuded confidence of participating increasing on Monday. “Many aspirants have registered for the mela online. Youngsters must make an effort, try hard to find a suitable job,” he added.', 'Maharaja’s College Groundss was astir with activity from the moment the mela was inaugurated till dusk, with crowds of youngsters milling about. Resumes in hand, they were flitting from one stall to another applying for a wide variety of jobs on offer. From those with SSLC to candidates with degrees in engineering, youngsters from all backgrounds were among those who were at the mela. More than 2,000 aspirants trickled into Maharaja’s College Grounds on the first day of the job fair.', 'Among the companies that had set up stalls at the fair were Infosys, Bosch, JK Tyres, Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and Technology, etc. As many as 15 stalls had been set up at bthe venue for registration. A Moreover, a dedicated stall was set up for physically-challenged aspirants.', 'Chamaraja MLA and BJP leader L Nagendra, who attended the fair, could not resist a tongue-in-cheek jibe at Devegowda, following the latter’s speech. “The Karnataka government is planning to generate jobs for nine crore youngsters in the state,” said Nagendra to laughter from the audience, who pointed out that the population of the state was not close to that figure.', 'Tourism minister SR Mahesh, Mysuru mayor Pushpalatha Jagannath, deputy mayor Shafi Ahmed, MLA Ashwin Kumar, MLC Marithibbegowda and deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar were among those in attendance at the inaugural ceremony of the Udyoga Mela.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Fire continues to rage in Bandipur for second day
['Forest officials have cancelled Safari at Bandipur Tiger Reserve following the devastating fire.', 'The only relief for the authorities is fire hasn’t spread to critical tiger habitat. Bandipur has highest tiger population in the world and nearly 25 % of the total tigers in India are found in Bandipur and abutting Nagarahole Tiger Reserve.', 'Safari was being regularly conducted in morning and evenings hours at Bandipur. There were more visitors during weekends and holidays. Since fire has spread to areas where tourists were taken inside forest, authorities of tiger reserve have cancelled the forest tour. Many tourists who were at Bandipur this weekend had to return disappointed. They too felt bad about the plight of flora and fauna at the forest.', 'Bandipur reception that was heaving with tourists during weekends wore a deserted look on Sunday.', 'Forest officers with supports of fire and emergency service personnel and volunteers have fought fire overnight and continued operation till 4 in the morning on Sunday. The raging fire near Melukamanahalli, Bandipur, area was contained around the time. Officials attribute early morning mist came to their rescue as intensity of fire decrease.', 'According to sources, more than 8,000 acres of Bandipur forest area has been reduced to cinders by the fire that surfaced in parts of forest which is spread over 2.16 lakh acres. Officials claim it is an act of sabotage.', 'Bandipura forest has been in news for the last five days following frequent fire accidents in different parts but Saturday’s fire was a major one.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Villagers help foresters douse Bandipur blaze
['Foresters closed the checkpost gate at Melkammanahalli, the entrance to Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on the Mysuru-...', "Foresters said it's an act of sabotage. Due to dry grass and lantana weed which has spread across the forest, the fire spread rapidly within a few minutes. The fire was first noticed on Friday near Mangala, Shivapura and Hundipura on the forest border but due to strong wind, it spread to Bandipur forest range and then to Gopalaswamy Betta forest range which comes under Bandipur Tiger Reserve.", 'Foresters closed the checkpost gate at Melkammanahalli, the entrance to the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on the Mysuru-Ooty highway and also stopped the wildlife safari. Foresters also closed the checkpost at Himavad Gopalaswamy Betta and stopped KSRTC bus service to Gopalaswamy Temple.', "It's estimated that over 400 acres of forest land was destroyed and hundreds of wild animals life killed in the raging fire.", 'Forest officers led by director Ambady Madhav, guards and wildlife volunteers along with fire service staff started dousing the blaze using fire engines and by traditional method of beating the fire with leaves by hand.', 'Gundlupet wildlife activist Shantha Murthy told STOI that he and his friends are helping the forest department kill the fire which was noticed at Magginahalli around 3.30am on Saturday. "Hundreds of villagers are also helping foresters douse the fire," he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Fire in Bandipur kills wild animals, destroys 400 acres of forest land
["A major fire in Karnataka's Bandipur Tiger Reserve destroyed over 400 acres of forest land and killed hundreds of wild animals on Saturday.Foresters suspect the fire was an act of sabotage.", 'With foresters closing the checkpost gate at Melkammanahalli, the entrance to Bandipur Tiger Reserve on the Mysuru-Ooty highway, weekend travellers en route to Ooty were stranded. While some waited for foresters to open the gate, others returned to Mysuru.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Mangaluru: 38 species of birds sighted during Campus Bird Count
['As many as 38 species of birds were sighted at St Aloysius College campus during Campus Bird Count.', 'Asian brown flycatcher.', 'Four days (February 15 to 18) of birding event concluded with recording of 38 species of birds. The common most birds of the campus include Black kite, Brahminy kite, Feral pigeons, Rosy starlings, Chestnut-tailed starlings, Asian Koels and White cheeked barbet. Total of eight migratory bird species were reported from this campus which includes Blyth’s reed warbler, Indian paradise flycatcher, Green warbler, Greenish warbler, Brown breasted flycatcher, Blue capped rock-thrush, Blue-tailed bee-eater and Ashy Drongo. Sighting of Blue capped rock-thrush is rare and unusual for this part of the coast.', 'The campus being in the midst of a crowded coastal city is home to several bird species, which is a rare and interesting observation. This emphasizes the importance of green patches in an urbanized area. The campus has several small green patches with large woody trees which act as sheltering grounds; additionally, there are many flowering and fruiting plants on the campus which attracts many birds as they provide food to these birds.', 'There are hundreds of Black kites seen perched on top of various buildings in the campus. Barn owls are seen resting in the old administrative building. Calls of Asian Koels and White-cheeked barbets can be heard throughout the day. Flocks of hundreds of Rosy and Chestnut tailed starlings flying around the campus is a blissful sight to cherish.', 'Such bird counts done for several years will give an understanding of how the bird populations are changing with time. Bird-watching is a best way to spend our leisure time and anyone can practise this hobby irrespective of their age, occupation and place. Watching birds can bring joy to our minds and be a good stress reliever. With continuous practice, bird watching becomes integral part of a birdwatchers life.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Dubai welcomes 2014 with fireworks display, breaks Guinness world record
[]


Ships return to port without Syrian chemical weapons, delay in first step
[]


Kerry to present Israel, Palestine outline for final Middle East peace deal
[]


Three dead, at least 265 arrested in latest Egypt crackdown
[]


Man who oversaw Saddam hanging recalls dictator's end
[]


Senior aide to ex-PM Hariri killed as explosion shakes Lebanese capital
[]


South Sudan: 3 Indian peacekeepers killed in attack on UN compound
[]


The OPCW's plan for destruction of Syrian chemical weapons
[]


India-origin British doctor detained for treating violence victims dies in Syrian custody
[]


South Sudan's fate hangs in balance as pro-govt, coup plotters clash
[]


Syria peace conference to be held from January 22 at Montreux in Switzerland
[]


UN inspectors confirm Syria chemical attack
[]


Decade after arrest, Saddam Hussein's legacy looms over Iraq
[]


Obama, Cameron pose for selfie at Mandela service
[]


Suicide bomb targets NATO convoy outside Kabul airport
[]


World leaders celebrate Mandela's legacy, call him 'giant of history'
[]


When Chotubhai Makan met Nelson Mandela and Mahatma Gandhi
[]


Mandela funeral: Arrival of world leaders in S Africa starts
[]


Explosions around Iraq claim at least 18 lives
[]


Israel, Jordan, Palestinians to sign Red Sea-Dead Sea deal
[]


Mandela's memorial service, funeral expected to witness largest gathering of global leaders
[]


Family, politicians battle over "Brand Mandela"
[]


South Africa unites in prayer for Mandela
[]


'A great light has gone out...Nelson Mandela was a hero of our time'
[]


At least 20 dead as suicide bomber attacks Yemen''s Defence Ministry
[]


Rockets kill 18 in govt-held areas of Syria's Aleppo: NGO
[]


Assault on office, other attacks kill 19 in Iraq
[]


Egypt police fire tear gas at pro-Morsi students in Tahrir square
[]


50 killed in air strikes on Syria's Al-Bab: NGO
[]


Syrian people need new leadership, military no solution to violence: US
[]


Historic n-deal with leeway for Iran, Obama says world safer
[]


Syria: Fighting near Damascus kills 160
[]


Historic n-deal with leeway for Iran, Obama says world safer
[]


Iran deal first step towards comprehensive solution: Obama
[]


Syria: Islamist rebels say seize crucial oilfield from Assad forces
[]


John Kerry in Geneva for Iran nuclear talks
[]


Violating international obligation, Iran forcefully deporting refugees back to Afghanistan
[]


Sea possible alternative if no host country found for Syria's CW destruction: OPCW
[]


Series of bombs, attacks kills 33 in Iraq
[]


Explosions kill 10 near Iranian Embassy in Beirut
[]


23 dead in Lebanon suicide bombings, Al-Qaeda affiliate claims responsibility
[]


Shiites flood Iraq shrine as bombs kill 17 worshippers
[]


Russia fears return of fighters waging jihad in Syria
[]


Syria: Al-Qaeda affiliate targeting citizens, journalists at Raqa
[]


4 dead, 25 rescued in building collapse in Nigeria
[]


Morsi tells Egyptian court "I am President", trial adjourned to Jan 8
[]


Iran says Pakistan must finance own gas pipeline
[]


Morsi on trial: Hearing begins as former pres faces jail or death
[]


Nigeria: Militants attack wedding convoy, 30 feared killed
[]


Kerry's first visit to Egypt since Morsi's ouster shrouded in secrecy
[]


Iraq oil pipeline bombed, pumping shut down
[]


Officials: Shootings kill 4 in north-central Iraq
[]


Killing of Taliban chief 'good news' for Pakistan: Analysts
[]


US deliberately carried out drone attack... to foil peace process: Pakistan
[]


Taliban say in touch with Pakistan government for talks
[]


PML-N says on same page with army on talks with militants
[]


UN envoy hopes for Syria peace conference within weeks
[]


After three years of captivity, 4 French men released by al-Qaeda
[]


Stop helping rebels for political solution in Syria, Assad tells the world
[]


Suicide bomber hits Tunisia beach, another attack foiled
[]


Saudi court sentences prominent rights lawyer to 3-month jail term for dissent
[]


Syria: Peace envoy Brahimi in talks with President Bashar al-Assad
[]


Suicide attacks across Iraq kill 20, October deaths climb to 600
[]


Syria sacks deputy PM for meeting US officials without permission
[]


Afghan govt tried to work with TTP to take revenge on Pak army
[]


New international airport opens for passengers in Dubai
[]


56 killed, atleast 15 injured in car bomb blasts across Shiite majority areas of Baghdad
[]


Activists: Saudi women's driving protest kicks off
[]


Syrian state TV reports army's seizure of Damascus suburb from rebels
[]


Saudi women say yes to Driving,  to protest against ban on Oct 26
[]


At London, SNC sets Assad's departure as condition for joining talks
[]


I will run for president in the coming elections in 2014: Bashar al-Assad
[]


Pakistani doctor who helped track Osama seeks fresh probe
[]


Syria peace talks in doubt over opposition rifts
[]


Netanyahu asks international community to keep up pressure on Iran
[]


Suicide bomber kills 31 in Syria's Hama: NGO
[]


Activists: Suicide vehicle bomb near Syrian capital kills 16
[]


Al Qaeda strikes fear into Iraq's govt-backed Sunni militia
[]


Bilawal may contest from Bhutto family stronghold in Sindh
[]


Egypt should stop deporting Syrian refugees: Amnesty International
[]


World powers weary despite 'breakthrough' in Iran nuclear proposal
[]


On Eid al-Adha, deadly blast kills 21 civilians, violence rages on in Syria
[]


Nigeria's military repel militant attacks, kill 40 Boko Haram cadres
[]


UK school bans students from using slang words
[]


Bomb near mosque in northern Iraq kills 12 Sunnis
[]


Bombing at mosque kills Afghanistan governor, 15 injured
[]


Nobel Peace Prize 'should have been mine', jokes Syria's Bashar al-Assad
[]


Syria: Shelling by govt forces kills 11 in Daraa city
[]


3 killed in suicide car bombing in east Afghanistan
[]


Progress on US-Afghan deal as Kerry visits Kabul
[]


Blast at Swedish consulate in Libya, no reports of casualties: Witness
[]


New report says Syrian rebels committed war crimes
[]


Afghan President Karzai's brothers to offer him role if elected
[]


Seized Libyan PM  Ali Zeidan a former rebel himself
[]


Libyan PM Ali Zeidan 'freed' hours after being kidnapped by former rebels
[]


30 killed in clashes in Central Africa Republic
[]


Palestine to set up embassy in Pakistan
[]


Syria arms inspectors face unprecedented danger: Ban
[]


9 killed after waves of militant attacks hit Egypt
[]


Kerry says Syrian chemical arms drive is to Assad's 'credit'
[]


50 dead as Egypt Islamists try to galvanise protests
[]


27 including children killed in Iraq suicide blasts
[]


Four US soldiers killed in south Afghanistan
[]


Egypt: Police tear-gas Islamists near Cairo square
[]


Calm amid killings: Kenya CCTV shows Westgate gunmen
[]


Kenya's military spokesman confirms names of attackers
[]


Al-Shabaab said foreign special forces attacked its Somali base
[]


Libyan checkpoint ambush kills at least 12 soldiers
[]


Turkey wrong to think terrorists it is breeding won't bite it back: Assad
[]


Pakistan may face sanctions over gas pipeline with Iran: US
[]


Iran's cyber warfare head shot dead in alleged assassination
[]


Six Syrian rebel groups call for ceasefire between warring rebel factions
[]


Syria: 12 killed in clashes between Army, al-Qaeda fighters at Damascus
[]


To take care of chemical weapons stockpile, inspectors arrive at Syria
[]


Al-Qaeda's Twitter account suspended
[]


Ex-finance minister Ashraf Ghani to run for Afghan president
[]


54 killed in car bomb blasts across Shiite majority areas of Baghdad
[]


Netanyahu to press Obama for no let-up on Iran pressure
[]


South Africa: Mandela's statue to be unveiled to mark 20 years of democracy
[]


Syria: Airstrike hits school, kills 12
[]


Nigeria: Militants kill 50 students in college attack
[]


Suicide bombers kill 2 Malians in army camp attack: Military
[]


Shoe show: Mixed reception for Rouhani after Obama call
[]


Syria: At least 30 killed by car bomb in town near Damascus
[]


Hassan Rouhani warns of Syria Talibanisation
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Garima Ahuja to question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Saumay Gupta to question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Sagar kumar to question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Nikhil Mishra to question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Nilambari Wadke to question for February 17-23, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for February 10-16, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ranjana Jaiswal to question for February 10-16, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Jairaj to question for February 10-16, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Hemant Kishor Pal to question for February 10-16, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Dishit Singh Chaudhary to question for February 10-16, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for February 03-09, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Saumay Gupta to question for Feburary 03-09, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Jairaj to question for Feburary 03-09, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Shalini Jha to question for Feburary 03-09, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Anura Gupta to question for Feburary 03-09, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ashish Jain to question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Rakshit Maheshwari to question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mohit Nigam to question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Swapnil Rayjada to question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Sounak Sarkar to question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for January 27-Feburary 02, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Sarthi Mittal to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ashita Gupta to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Anirudh Harisinghaney to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Siddhartha Bhatnagaar to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Akshay Varma to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Hemant Pal to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Vijay Parekh to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Muzaffar Khan Waris to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Utkarsh Sharma to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Swati Singh to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Princy Batra to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ashish Jain to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Vipul Nagda to question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for January 20-26, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Swati Singh to question for January 13-19, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Siddhartha Bhatnagar to question for January 13-19, 2014
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for January 13-19, 2014
[]


FE@Campus MASTERMIND Contest 2014: TERMS and CONDITIONS
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Manu Gupta to question for April 1-7
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Garima Namdeo to question for April 1-7
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Kapil Jain to question for April 1-7
[]


FE @ CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for April 1-7
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ranjeet Singh to question for March 25-31
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Udit Singh to question for March 25-31
[]


FE @ CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for March 25-31
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Udit Singh to question for March 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Rishabh Diwakar to question for March 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Karanjit Singh to question for March 18-24
[]


FE @ CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Question for March 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Tushar Shah to question for March 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Rishikesh to question for March 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Nishant Dua to question for March 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mayank Popli to question for March 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Udit Singh to question for March 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR MARCH 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Abhay Bhoria to question for March 04-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Paridhi Gola to question for March 04-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Anshul Meena to question for March 04-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Manu Gupta to question for March 04-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mayur Dhingra to question for March 04-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR MAR 04 - 10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Disha Shah to question for Feb 25-March03
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Garima Ahuja to question for Feb 25-March03
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Jairaj Bisht to question for Feb 25 - Mar 03
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mohit Markana to question for Feb 25-March03
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR FEB 25-MAR 03
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Nikhil Kumar Ranjan to question for Feb 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ananta Reddy to question for Feb 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR FEB 18-24
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Sourav Ahuja to question for Feb 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Garima Ahuja to question for Feb 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ashish Kulkarni to question for Feb 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ankit Mahapatra to question for Feb 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Siddharth Yadav to question for Feb 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR FEB 11-17
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ashish V Kulkarni to question for Feb 4-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Sumit Kumar to question for Feb 4-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Kumar Pravir to question for Feb 4-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR Feb 4-10
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Omar Menon to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Anky Trivedi to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Prerna Nagpal to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Kishan Shahi to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Rajshekhar Dalmia to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Amit Motwani to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Harsh Mehta to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Prakash Mohan Markar to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Deepak Motiramani to question for Jan 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR JAN 28-Feb 3
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Jatin Mehra to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ajinkya Nandurdikar to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mohit Marakna to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Harish Kumar to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Biren Kaushikbhai Shah to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Prakash Mohan Markar to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ankita R Paraswani to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Vishal Rajai to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Kumar Ritesh to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Harsh Mehta to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Lalit Soni to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Amit Motwani to question for Jan 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR JAN 21-27
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ragini Bhargava to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND:Response by Abhishek Kumar Singh to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Anand P Gautam to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Amit Motwani to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Ravi Shah to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Harsh Mehta to question for Jan 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR JAN 14-20
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Dhawal Pratap Singh to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Yuvaraj D to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Kantilal Rathore to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Mahavir Accha to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Arpan Shah to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Vipul Nagda to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Jaydev Patil to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Dhaval Patel to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by N Stalin to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: Response by Amit Motwani to question for Jan 7-13
[]


FE@CAMPUS MASTERMIND: QUESTION FOR JAN 7-13
[]


Win a smartphone: 'THE FINANCIAL EXPRESS FE@Campus Contest'
[]


22 firms found marketing unauthorised 'herbal' drinking water
[]


Airtel launches flexible plans for post paid customers
[]


US equity firm KKR to invest about $150 mn in Gland Pharma
[]


Infosys results: With Narayana Murthy at helm, profit rises 1.6%, share price up
[]


Tata Chemicals plant wins NSCI Suraksha Puraskar
[]


Volkswagen launches Vento TSI for Indian market at under Rs 10L
[]


Apollo Tyres bid for Cooper Tire 'at risk unless price is cut'
[]


Tata Steel Q2 output up 18% to 2.2 MT
[]


Porsche launches new generation Panamera at Rs 1.19 cr
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra launches Scorpio Special Edition at Rs 11.88 lakh
[]


Indian IT outsourcers want a bigger byte out of Europe
[]


Flipkart raises $160 million in latest funding drive
[]


Bharti, Walmart call off India joint venture
[]


LPG price may go up by Rs 3.50 per cylinder
[]


Air Costa to launch commercial operations from Oct 14
[]


Tata-Singapore Airlines deal: FIPB to take call on Oct 18
[]


India's Q3 MandA activity at $5.7 bn, 9-mth deal tally at $17 bn
[]


Jet-Etihad Airways deal: SC notice to Centre, others on Subramanian Swamy's plea
[]


Phantoms, Ghosts, Wraiths: Rolls-Royce sees Asia's desire for luxury driving growth
[]


Tata Sons hopeful of getting nod for airline JV with Singapore Airlines
[]


Vodafone plans $2 bn investment to raise stake in Indian unit: report
[]


Apollo Tyres accuses Cooper Tire of misrepresenting facts about China JV
[]


Indian Oil is sole bidder for Haldia Petrochemicals
[]


Apollo Tyres, Cooper Tire haggle over $2.5 bn deal value as wrinkles emerge
[]


Ashok Leyland launches 7-seater 'Stile' MPV at Rs 7.5 lakh
[]


Fi and Hi India 2013 unveils roadmap for food industry
[]


Google, ASI usher in 'digital tourism' in India
[]


DandO liability insurance gains currency with passage of Companies Act
[]


Narayana Murthy is good news for Infosys' Q2 earnings: Analysts
[]


Vacant posts in AAI's communication, navigation wing raises concerns
[]


Strong growth expected for TCS, Infosys, Wipro in Q2: Analysts
[]


2G Spectrum auction: Telcos that lost permits may not get chance to bid
[]


South Africa industry body opposes Vodacom move to buy Tata-led Neotel
[]


Toyota re-launches Innova at starting price of Rs 12.45 lakh
[]


Koenig Solutions gets recognition for cyber security training
[]


Max Bupa, Public Health Foundation promote walking
[]


Maruti Suzuki production dips marginally in Sept to 92,140 units
[]


Half of Fortune 500 firms to be based in emerging markets, Aditya Birla Group leads: McKinsey
[]


More trouble for Nokia in India, set to get Rs 1,000 cr notice from taxman
[]


Jet-Etihad Airways deal: Supreme Court to hear Subramanian Swamy's PIL against Centre's nod
[]


Cabinet clears Jet Airways stake sale to Etihad Airways
[]


Wipro Technologies senior VP Anand Sankaran quits
[]


Maruti Suzuki most considered nameplate among vehicle shoppers: survey
[]


Sunil Mittal's Bharti Enterprise to take a call on Wal-Mart JV in Oct: report
[]


India lures foreign colleges to cash in working-age boom
[]


No plans to reduce workforce: Ranbaxy Laboratories
[]


Gold, silver extend losses on sluggish demand, global cues
[]


JSW Steel, Marubeni Itochu of Japan to set up steel processing centre for auto drive
[]


Bentley Motors Limited drives in new 'Flying Spur' priced Rs 3.1 cr
[]


Vedanta Resources eyes Kolar mining, may bid for Bharat Gold Mines
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra September sales plunge 10 pct
[]


Emami launches anti pollution face wash range
[]


Hyundai Motor India sales decline 4 pct in September
[]


Amazon to hire 70,000 seasonal workers
[]


Apollo Tyres shares plunge 9 pct after Cooper Tire shareholders OK sale
[]


Indian railways asked to pay Rs 1L for daylight theft in moving train
[]


After Indian railways, now BlackBerry, Android smartphone tickets for air travel see upward trend
[]


SC issues notice to Centre, CBI, Reliance Industries on gas controversy
[]


Finance oil imports via overseas borrowings: Finance Minister to Veerappa Moily
[]


Now, rent an Apple iPad preloaded with movies during flight
[]


Japan's Toshiba to shed 2,000 jobs at foreign TV plants
[]


Reliance Industries cries it's being penalised twice over
[]


'Tata-Singapore Airlines will be good for consumers, industry'
[]


Corporates should take CSR law positively: Nita Ambani
[]


Privatisation: AirAsia India wants to use old Chennai terminal
[]


LIC asks extension of deadline for meeting new guideline norms
[]


Ban on zero pct EMI not to hurt festive sales: Durables makers
[]


Jet Airways served with rent default notice by US-based ILFC
[]


Vodafone in talks to buy Tata Communications' Neotel for over $500 mn: Report
[]


Bajaj Auto to raise motorcycle prices, launch new variants of Pulsar, Discover soon
[]


CVC may close complaints of irregularities in Jet Airways, Etihad Airways deal
[]


Philanthropy has to be spontaneous, can't be forced, says Wipro's Azim Premji
[]


Nissan recalls 908,900 vehicles globally for sensor problem
[]


Etihad Airways CEO James Hogan hints at more investment worldwide
[]


Microsoft India launches ImagineCup 2014 tech competition
[]


AirAsia India says received 'NoC' from Aviation Ministry, Tony Fernandes 'ecstatic'
[]


Future Group bets big on direct selling platform
[]


Tata Motors beats slowdown at home with Jaguar Land Rover volumes
[]


Micromax handsets to be bundled with low call rate, free Internet from Aircel
[]


BMW tops new vehicle sales satisfaction among luxury brands in India
[]


Over 1,000 applicants for Etihad Airways' hiring drive in India
[]


Vijay Mallya's United Spirits offers 11.5% fixed deposit interest rate
[]


Fiat Linea Classic sedan launched in India, priced at Rs 5.99 lakh
[]


Tata Group, Singapore Airlines say JV to create jobs
[]


Westlife price suggests Vikram Bakshi's McDonald's stake worth Rs 2,500 cr
[]


Parle Agro re-enters cola market after 20 years with Cafe Cuba
[]


Daiichi to cooperate with USFDA to resolve Ranbaxy concerns
[]


IndiGo gross profit skyrockets 516 pct to Rs 993 crore
[]


French fallout: Vijay Mallya summoned by Delhi High Court over Avion De Transport Regional Gie deal
[]


Supreme Court sends Bharti Airtel's 3G pact plea back to TDSAT
[]


Techtextil India 2013 in Mumbai from Oct 3
[]


Executive compensation: Indian companies log highest pay hikes globally, says study
[]


Payback joins hand with Formule1 Hotels
[]


Sundaram Finance's BPO arm bags 5 deals, to hire 150 people
[]


Tata,foreign firms participate in pre-bid meeting for airports
[]


No deficiency of college if graduate unable to get job: NCDRC
[]


Raymond Weil bullish on India but to stay away from retail FDI
[]


US FDA alert puts Ranbaxy under scanner of other regulators
[]


Omaxe ties up with Wizcraft to create entertainment zone
[]


Property firm Unitech told to repay $150 mn loan to Deutsche Bank
[]


Govt proposes tough disclosure norms for executive salaries
[]


Tata Motors to raise vehicle prices by up to 1.5%
[]


Cabinet approves HPCL's Rs 37,229-cr refinery in Rajasthan
[]


Tata Group applies for 'Tata Singapore Airlines' name
[]


L'Oreal buys Mumbai-based Cheryl's Cosmeceuticals
[]


Tata Group, Singapore Airlines is good for Indian passengers, say experts
[]


Exchange4media's Anurag Batra, investment banker Vikram Jhunjhunwala  buy Businessworld from ABP
[]


HP urges customers to rethink security strategy
[]


US follows India on disclosure of CEO-staff pay ratio at companies
[]


'Vodafone to start start tax pre-conciliation talks with govt'
[]


Escorts appoints Nikhil Nanda as Managing Director
[]


Godrej Properties raises Rs 700 cr via rights issue
[]


Companies to be honoured on Dec 2 at UBM India Pharma Awards
[]


Etihad Airways plans to triple number of seats on Delhi, Mumbai routes
[]


Hyundai to hike prices by up to Rs 20,000 from Oct 1
[]


Abu Dhabi's Etihad Airways plans expansion push into India
[]


Honda says to recall 405,000 vehicles over airbag system glitch
[]


In sign of downturn, Indian retail landlords finally capitulate on price
[]


Mukesh Ambani's Reliance takes on DGH, Moily says decision soon
[]


50 dead in Sudan fuel riots: Rights group
[]


US, Iran hold historic high-level talks in over 30 years
[]


New Iranian president wants 'empty prisons'
[]


US, Russia agree on Syria U.N. chemical arms measure
[]


Iraq: Triple bombing at market near Baghdad kills 23, wounds 40
[]


Syria will comply, chemical inspectors may have trouble with 'terrorists', says Assad
[]


1 Dead: Afghan in army uniform fires on foreign troops
[]


Militant group attacks Kenyan border town
[]


Kenya launches probe as Shabaab leader confirms mall attack
[]


Syrian rebel groups reject SNC authority, call for Islamic leadership
[]


US president Obama opens door to direct diplomacy with Iran
[]


Nairobi mall attack brings back memories of 26/11 strike
[]


Syria: Peace talks bite the dust, rebels and Islamists clash over territory
[]


UN envoy for Somalia calls for stepping up fight against al Shabaab
[]


Kenya Terror Attack: 6 Militants still 'holding out' in the mall
[]


Noting Syria's humanitarian crisis, UN aid worker demands access
[]


Americans, Briton among Kenya mall attackers: Amina Mohamed
[]


Kenya terror attack: At least 62 dead, all hostages free on day 4
[]


Egypt court bans Muslim Brotherhood
[]


Kenya terror attack: Nairobi mall siege nears end, 2 'terrorists'' killed
[]


Indian shot in Kenya mall for failing to answer query on Islam
[]


Nairobi attack: Obama offers support to Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta
[]


Hassan Rouhani slams Iran sanctions as he heads to New York
[]


Kenya terror attack: Forces say 'most' hostages rescued
[]


Reporter outside, good friends inside mall
[]


Russia ready to send observers to Syria
[]


Nigeria: Death toll in northeastern region attack up to at least 142
[]


Pakistani terror trainer behind Kenyan mall attack?
[]


2 Indians among 68 killed in Kenya terror attack
[]


Nairobi mall attack: Fresh gunfire erupts, two Kenyan soldiers injured
[]


Nairobi mall attack: Two Indians among 39 killed by Al Shebab militants
[]


Kenya mall shooting: Al Qaeda-linked Islamists hold hostages after killing 39
[]


Syria troops, militia kill 15 in Sunni village: NGO
[]


Officials: US moves to keep future Egypt aid money
[]


Pakistan releases former Taliban second-in-command
[]


Chemical watchdog examines Syria's weapons details
[]


White House: Iran overtures 'clearly not sufficient'
[]


Syria sends inventory of its chemical weapons to OPCW
[]


Syrian Opposition: Rebel faction, Islamists sign truce agreement
[]


Islamist ethic will bring back dictatorial repression in Syria: SNC
[]


Twin Qaeda attacks kill 56 in Yemen
[]


Hassan Rouhani calls for constructive interaction with US
[]


UAE asks Indian school in Abu Dhabi to shut down
[]


Syria: 19 killed after bomb hits bus in Homs province
[]


Syrian children return to school amid war
[]


Rouhani praises Obama's letter as 'positive and constructive'
[]


Al-Qaeda linked group takes northern Syrian town after clash with rebels
[]


Many countries impose restrictions on Muslim veils
[]


Uncertainty over handover of Gaddafi son for pre-trial
[]


Around 1000 dead in Egyptian security forces clash with armed groups
[]


Chemical weapons disposal will cost $1 bln, take a year: Bashar al-Assad
[]


President Bashar al-Assad denies his forces conducted chemical attack
[]


Syria gives Russia 'new evidence' of rebel 'conspiracy' in chemical attack
[]


In public shift, Israel calls for Assad's fall
[]


Obama clears way for non-lethal aid to Syrian rebels
[]


Israel PM Netanyahu supports Russia, says it was not 'bluffing' on Syria
[]


Chemical weapons deal wins time for Syria's Assad but at a cost
[]


Ban Ki-moon to present key Syria chemical report
[]


Russia's Putin is 'protecting' the Syrian regime: Obama
[]


48 killed in wave of car bombings across Shiite-dominated cities of Iraq
[]


Obama welcomes Syria deal, warns of action if diplomacy fails
[]


Syria's use of chemical weapons a criminal act: Obama
[]


Protests re-intensify in Turkey, police use tear gas to disperse agitators
[]


Wall Street Journal: Syria chemical weapons sites being dispersed
[]


The UN says Syria's Assad signed chemical weapons decree
[]


Syrian rebels blast Russian offer on chemical arms
[]


Israeli minister cautiously welcomes Syria chemical arms plan
[]


CIA starts weapons delivery to Syrian rebels
[]


UN probe: 8 massacres by Syria regime, 1 by rebels
[]


Obama says he wants to explore diplomatic route on Syria
[]


44 killed, 39 injured in Iran bus collision
[]


Military strike on hold if Assad turns over chemical weapons: Obama
[]


Syrian Foreign Minister announces Syria ready to surrender chemical weapons to UN
[]


'Expect everything' if you attack Syria: Assad to US
[]


Despite Assad's threat of retaliation, Kerry believes shying away riskier than attack
[]


Despite hiccups, White House announces it has enough international support for Syria strike
[]


Syrian war victims flown to UK for testing and treatment
[]


Pentagon awaiting Obama's orders to mount attack on Syria
[]


Egypt interior minister escapes bid on life, 22 injured in bomb attack
[]


Strike on Syria could mean nuke disaster: Russia
[]


UN seeks Syria peace talks amid military strike threat
[]


Putin warns West, but doesn't 'exclude' action against Assad
[]


If International community does not act on Syria now, norms will start to erode: Barack Obama
[]


Man who opened fire near Pak parliament recruited youth for LeT
[]


Iraq: 16 members of Shi'ite family killed by gunmen
[]


With a view to tip Syrian conflict's balance, France to debate military action in Syria
[]


US risks losing allies if no action taken against Syria: John Kerry
[]


Syria unrest: Russia says ballistic missiles fired in Mediterranean
[]


Egypt: Muslim Brotherhood under legal threat as bomb hits central Cairo
[]


Syria: Assad behind chemical attack, report French intelligence services
[]


7 million Syrians displaced by Civil War: UN
[]


UN, Iraq order probe on alleged attack on Iranian refugee camp that killed 52
[]


Syria ready for any "external aggression": Bashar al-Assad
[]


Nelson Mandela returns home, condition remains critical: South African President
[]


Barack Obama seeks US Congress' approval for military strike against Syria
[]


US to take military action against Syrian regime: Obama
[]


Iraqi Al Qaeda denounces Brotherhood as 'democratic', calls Egyptians to fight army
[]


Syria prepared for US attack, will retaliate: Regime Official
[]


Al Qaeda claims responsibility for series of bombings across Iraq
[]


Egypt moves closer to Al-Jazeera TV affiliate ban
[]


Al-Qaeda vows 'volcano of revenge' against Syrian regime over chemical weapons attack
[]


Egypt interim PM announces decision to not dissolve Muslim Brotherhood
[]


New York Police designates mosques as terrorist organizations for surveillance
[]


65 killed and scores injured in Iraq bomb attacks
[]


Syria: US, allies prepare to strike as Joe Biden says no doubt over chemical weapons use
[]


Palestinians say round of talks halted after clash
[]


Nigeria: 44 in a village killed by slitting throats, authorities suspect Boko Haram
[]


UN disarmament chief arrives in Syria, to press for chemical weapons inquiry
[]


US ups ante on Syria, positions naval ship on reports of chemical weapons use
[]


After Mubarak's 'release', Egypt braces for fresh protests
[]


After election debacle, Mugabe sworn in for new term as Zimbabwe president
[]


Deposed Egyptian dictator Hosni Mubarak released from prison
[]


Egypt court orders ex-President Hosni Mubarak's release
[]


Egypt: Hosni Mubarak may walk free, top Muslim Brotherhood leader detained
[]


Egypt turmoil deepens as militants kill 25 policemen in Sinai
[]


Muslim Brotherhood faces ban in Egypt, death toll crosses 800
[]


UN chief asks Israel, Palestinians to overcome scepticism and work towards peace
[]


UN reports sudden wave of Syrians fleeing to Kurdish region of Iraq
[]


Egypt's Malawi National Museum looted in rioting by Morsi supporters
[]


Nigeria: Militants kill 44 inside mosque
[]


Egypt expected to act against pro-Morsi protesters Monday
[]


Israel to free first group of Palestinian prisoners ahead of peace talks
[]


Doubles, a lucrative option
[]


DGP defines the road to peace, if Chhattisgarh govt takes it
[]


A flight too early to NZ
[]


How 100 cadres keep an Assam dist on edge
[]


Moyes on slippery ground
[]


In old-style rather than AAP politics in Karnataka, Congress matches BJP
[]


No doing away with lobbying
[]


The many mistakes of Muzaffarnagar
[]


To tackle train fires, look at the cause, not tech
[]


Short-circuiting the free market
[]


Line of body or bodyline?
[]


Ranji stars sink with team
[]


Reading the expenditure leaf
[]


Kerala sects'' unholy hold on ministry
[]


World Cup in mind, selectors take stock
[]


Designer tracks back in vogue
[]


Yerwada jail has a lot to explain on Dutt
[]


AAP can't speak for India's cities
[]


A season to settle debates
[]


One man's fast reminds Punjab what it could easily have done
[]


Different takes on same pitch
[]


Billionaire trumped by fans
[]


Is there anything going right for Nitish?
[]


Kirsten's template ignored
[]


Govt lifeline for bleeding PSUs
[]


Raman Singh versus his No. 2, snappier than ever
[]


In choppy waters, Mulayam swims against the tide
[]


Half smash, full hit
[]


Priority sector woes for foreign banks
[]


Draw? You must be joking
[]


On Section 377, govt can''t shirk what is its call
[]


Welcome turn to commentary?
[]


Rahul rediscovers Manmohan Singh''s diagnosis
[]


Well begun, but Rahul needs to maintain tempo
[]


Wenger, last link to the past
[]


Two faces of India's growth story
[]


Why cut when you can move up?
[]


AAP vs the Anna party
[]


Vijay, fooled by full one
[]


Chouhan in solitary splendour
[]


AVB lost in a Bale vacuum
[]


Great Danes
[]


Forensic audit of ministries, too?
[]


Man City''s contrasting form
[]


Hosts out but party goes on
[]


Not from the coaching Manuel
[]


Raising the doubles fault line
[]


Seeds of Johnson 2.0  in MI colours
[]


Stop with the excuses
[]


Changes only the beginning
[]


Haddin makes his own luck
[]


PC manufacturers taken ill by tablets
[]


Ganguly case: SC rap raises questions
[]


Congress gameplan to rein in Jagan
[]


Let''s look beyond runs, wickets
[]


BCCI move in line with global trend
[]


Bali meeting: India in the spotlight
[]


Now Bhullar must focus on Europe
[]


Valdes, the saviour, missing in action
[]


Naveen puts more distance between him, others
[]


Disown goal
[]


Future of game safe in Asia
[]


Tehelka test for new legal regime
[]


Even the SAI warrants a CEO
[]


Big Two need to box for the fans
[]


School cricket or Ashes?
[]


Kiran''s lonely anti-Telangana battle
[]


Why Diageo-UB passed the test in India but failed in the UK
[]


No shortcuts for Zaheer
[]


Yuvraj, Raina: Journeymen in India''s success
[]


For banks, is investing in stocks more risky than lending for NPAs?
[]


There is a story in Chhattisgarh vote numbers
[]


Take a leaf from VAT to get GST going
[]


Boxers losing precious time
[]


Baskaran''s reverse flick
[]


BJP''s blatant vote bank politics
[]


KP added a ton of weight
[]


Can Jonny keep faith like Matt?
[]


Ghats stir: Kerala missing the wood for the trees
[]


It''s over to you Jacques
[]


Persistence pays for Ronaldo
[]


Politics scores, reforms suffer
[]


FIR ruling still leaves police much leeway
[]


Skip the noise around market highs
[]


For the federation, draw is a point lost
[]


Rattled Nitish lets nervousness show
[]


Barca can cope without Messi
[]


Lending pressure, rising NPAs may impact banks'' ratings
[]


Bring on the main course
[]


Rajasthan Cong puts aside Rahul criterion
[]


Heena, choker no longer
[]


Don''t blame Goldman. Solve Delhi-Gurgaon project instead
[]


Give Dortmund a break
[]


Contesting from 2 seats, Chouhan forced to eat words
[]


Hockey''s one and only destination
[]


BJP trips on the first step to win Delhi
[]


A Shane who bowls  the doosra
[]


Clubs need to rethink choices
[]


Why is Rahul selective in speaking out?
[]


Accounting for gender economics
[]


Chess needs football lessons
[]


MP's politics of symbolism
[]


Democracy takes back seat in ticket distribution
[]


Bad Kimi, good PR
[]


We don''t need no regulation
[]


Power reforms: A step back?
[]


Is Nitish erring on the side of caution?
[]


Arsenal boom in danger of going bust
[]


Jadavpur V-C latest to quit Bengal''s 'political'' campuses
[]


Raghuram Rajan''s foreign bank options
[]


AIFF takes a hit with ISL''s delay
[]


Shiva makes do with less
[]


Drug trials: Lax regulations cost country dear
[]


Who will carry the growth story?
[]


Boxers: At home, not alone
[]


Vijay''s form may decide No. 4 debate
[]


Format woe for Indian boxers
[]


Tiger tragedy in the making again
[]


There and back again
[]


MoF finally moves to shore up capital for public sector banks
[]


GP''s future bleaker than it appears
[]


Who exactly is a minority in Arunachal?
[]


Talent polished with patience
[]


No spice in offie's variations
[]


State finances: Measuring states the right way
[]


Spectre of caste war haunts Bihar
[]


Aditya still has some way to go
[]


Back to blame-game in Chhattisgarh
[]


Rohit: Up and running
[]


Knee-jerk reaction shows confusion in UP
[]


The way forward with Walsh
[]


MP stampede exposes govt''s fault lines
[]


Why Jamaica must come clean
[]


Need to change leadership  attitude in Army
[]


Uddhav asserts his command over Sena
[]


Indian batsmen fall short
[]


India, China face supply side issues
[]


Belgium put world on notice
[]


Rahul goes rural, so does Congress
[]


New rules, old problems
[]


Iron ore exports up, will factories follow?
[]


Stable rupee boosts RBI confidence
[]


Kerala's gag notice raises questions
[]


Ra-ra Rabri, La La Lalu land
[]


Dilshan leaves, more to come
[]


'My man Shah' in Uttar Pradesh
[]


Dwayne turns into MI''s rock
[]


BAI react with excess force
[]


Free ride at toll gates: Lessons
[]


Close of play for TandT
[]


Time locopilots got their due
[]


Biz houses and banks  misplaced worries
[]


India, foreign varsities: degrees of separation
[]


In Polgar's footsteps
[]


Lalrindika resurfaces
[]


Age of empires
[]


Zak is back, but what lies ahead?
[]


A lot rests on Aadhaar for govt
[]


Bhatia's bag of tricks
[]


Hockey's Junior High
[]


CBI Mulayam move may run foul of SC
[]


Ringing in the tall order
[]


Hooking up India, Bangla relations
[]


Pranab Mukherjee's Presidential moment
[]


Markets slip despite buoyant FII mood
[]


Never say never in the BCCI
[]


Okpara priceless for EB
[]


Mother tongue: Who is the govt talking to?
[]


History, not in the making
[]


Heavyweights, stuck in mud
[]


Naidu flirts with BJP, leaves his old friends guessing
[]


It's time to give third umpire voice
[]


Sindhu needs to climb down a rung
[]


A new set of rules each season
[]


CPM brass put on the mat by party workers
[]


Don't blame the politician
[]


Carlsen, full steam ahead
[]


Agni V is not only about range
[]


New balls, old fears for Asia
[]


India plans barter trade pact with Singapore
[]


Broke Punjab needs to take blinkers off
[]


Time for U-19 star to grow up
[]


One vote bank, many claimants
[]


Reality check for India
[]


A small step for farmers, stepping stone for Modi
[]


Fresh Sensex rally more broad based
[]


There and back again
[]


The chemical weapons window
[]


Discoms'' debt recast plan gains traction
[]


A true rebound ace, Rafa
[]


IOC makes a mess of it
[]


SP has only itself to blame
[]


Punjab's VIP security cooks
[]


Unlisted insurance companies? Ask Parliament
[]


A lose-win situation
[]


Wrestling's moment of truth
[]


Telecom scam: Chacko's JPC maths
[]


Vanzara letter: A lot between the lines
[]


Gasquet's unkept promise
[]


Market sentiment: Rajan off to a positive start
[]


Ramandeep: The find of Asia Cup
[]


It's still a long way to CM post for Jyotiraditya
[]


Iran oil plan not exactly simple
[]


Slowing factory output shadows core sector growth
[]


Ego clash replaces
[]


Hotspur lose Bale, gain a lot
[]


Will Mizoram lift its prohibition law?
[]


Why the right men matter in saving the Rupee
[]


Glimpse of Srikanth's potential
[]


Amarinder writes to PM over quota to Jats, wants it extended to Punjab and other states
[]


Punjab Congress ready to move HC for CBI probe into drug racket
[]


Unruly scenes in HP House over CM family's stakes in Tarini
[]


Virbhadra must come clean, reply to my charges: Dhumal
[]


HPCA row: HC asks cricket body to file reply by Jan 4
[]


HCS recruitments: INLD stages protest outside CM''s residence, seeks probe
[]


Chargesheet in Rohtak honour killings names girl's parents, brother
[]


Three held guilty under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act
[]


Bomb 'falls out' of aircraft, explodes at Ambala Air Force station
[]


Flower market to boost Himachal economy
[]


Kabaddi tournament: England team alleges 3 of Pak players transgender, minister rules out medical check-up
[]


Punjab excise dept. to lodge FIR into VAT evasion by companies
[]


Shimla (rural) to be model constituency
[]


Shimla (rural) to be model constituency
[]


Bathinda land scam: CBI to share confidential report with 'accused'
[]


Centre says no to gravity water scheme for Shimla
[]


Ludhiana police to pay for acid attack victim's treatment
[]


Punjab and Haryana HC puts off Dharampal's hanging to Jan 31
[]


Malerkotla boy''s kin plan campaign to speed up probe
[]


Know more than Bajwa, have been  in state politics for  16 yrs: Amarinder
[]


2-member SIT to probe PPSC doc recruitment
[]


Court directs registration of FIR against Haryana Sports Minister
[]


O P Chautala's flat attached by court for laundering crime
[]


Dalit atrocities: SC body gets 11,000 complaints
[]


HC orders compulsory retirement of three judges
[]


Candidates with blighted past lead poll campaigns in Haryana
[]


2 violations behind takeover: Cabinet
[]


Asaram's case has added hatred among devotees: Sri Sri Ravi Shanker
[]


11 police stations for NRIs set up by Punjab Government
[]


Khaira slams govt for appointing advisors with ministerial status
[]


'Unity' lunch brings out fissures in Cong
[]


Jakhar slams govt for 'diversion of funds'
[]


Inspection drive at state-run hospitals from next week
[]


UPA govt deliberately stalling Punjab''s projects, says Badal
[]


For Attari pavilion makeover, Centre sanctions Rs 24 crore
[]


As water swamps schools, students at receiving end
[]


Journos grab two of three vacancies in Haryana Info Commission
[]


Scribe death: HC refuses to issue notice on MLA''s petition
[]


40-year-old woman gangraped in Punjab
[]


Polls on mind, Hooda doles out jobs
[]


Bumper poppy crop in MP keeps Punjab cops busy
[]


Child's body found in sack at Sirsa
[]


Jawan-officer face-off in Punjab: Army orders court of inquiry
[]


After deluge, Malwa struggles with faulty drains
[]


IITs are glorified engineering colleges, varsities more important: UGC chairman
[]


New move by High Court, bail on first hearing
[]


Moisture content a worry
[]


Rain, winds hit paddy arrival, but rates improve
[]


Bajwa meets Montek, Jakhar stays away
[]


Rahul praises PM Manmohan Singh, calls him his 'political guru'
[]


20 pilgrims killed as truck rolls down gorge
[]


To alert public, website will name bad 'paymasters''
[]


No burning, only meat and liquor for this Ravana
[]


'Frame-up'' case: Submit report in two months, Punjab Police told
[]


PSEB gets notice over secretary''s appointment
[]


Selection of S-Is: Haryana commission asked to submit answer sheets
[]


Briefly State:
[]


Riots or not, these artistes keep their date with faith
[]


Minister asks officials to clear pending CLU cases
[]


After Dhindsa, it''s Badal''s turn to cry foul over Rahul''s visit
[]


HC takes suo motu notice of illegal mining report, issues notice to Punjab
[]


Cong slams Sukhbir for 'clean chit'' to Modi on riots
[]


13-year-old girl found murdered in Malerkotla, rape attempt suspected
[]


228 most wanted criminals, 4,272 POs at large in Haryana
[]


Lok Sabha polls: BJP  to contest 3, SAD 10 seats from Punjab
[]


Woman dies in Jalandhar after being 'treated by MD'' who was not a doc
[]


Lokayukta probe yet to take off, INLD may approach HC
[]


Couple attempts suicide in Fatehabad, girl dies
[]


Day after Prez clean chit, Hooda calls it 'administrative issue''
[]


HP bends norms to favour pvt universities, colleges
[]


Azad announces cancer hospital for Hoshiarpur
[]


Briefly region
[]


Briefly Region: INLD constitutes committee to expose Cong
[]


Punjab gets a week to explain if it''s withdrawing notices
[]


CAG accuses Haryana govt of 'financial impropriety''
[]


Failure to respond irks rights panel, officials summoned
[]


Maintain status quo on schools: HC
[]


Look within before advising PM,  Cong tells Badal
[]


Briefly State: Truck hits bystanders, 3 of family die
[]


Cong''s Adhikar Yatra enters 'terrified villages of Majitha''
[]


Inter-state gang hiding in sarpanch''s house arrested
[]


Spell out policy for those rotting in jail after completing life term: HC to govt
[]


PTU indicts principal, show cause issued
[]


Malerkotla returns to normalcy
[]


Nine feared drowned in Kapurthala boat capsize
[]


Briefly Region: Retired teachers to be employed on contract: Bhukkal
[]


Gurgaon cops'' drink driving campaign has sobering effect
[]


Book e-way operator, NHAI told
[]


Rajesh Dharmani resigns as Himachal CPS
[]


Ludhiana''s tryst with Shastri
[]


Rice millers threaten strike if demands not met by Oct 7
[]


In PM''s place, I would have quit: Badal
[]


Cops detain 5 boys, Muslims take to streets in protest
[]


Announcements galore, but no action
[]


Gurgaon most high-risk zone
[]


Rohtak man booked for taking cops for a ride
[]


Shimla rapes: Fourth accused arrested
[]


94 in Punjab, 76 in Haryana rot in jail even after completing life term
[]


'Panjab University is top Indian institute''
[]


Briefly Region: Haryana forms archives committee
[]


Heroin worth Rs 95 cr seized, three arrested
[]


HC: Report on PTU hiring in 3 months
[]


Tried to mollify Sarkaria but failed: Bajwa
[]


Rahul to visit state on October 10
[]


CM predicts 'exorbitant'' hike in petrol prices
[]


Protests after boy murder, Badal orders probe
[]


Central deputation of Bansal''s PS cut short
[]


NRI woman 'duped'' into marriage in Ludhiana
[]


Sarabjit lawyer gets asylum in Sweden
[]


Property tax: Rebate date extended
[]


Leaders 'quoted'' in press release claim ignorance
[]


Cong MLAs demand action against Sarkaria
[]


Youths open fire on police van carrying inmates
[]


Criminal who 'terrorised'' Bhiwani villages gunned down by police
[]


BJP, HJC form panel to decide on seats
[]


No funds for midday meal in Sept
[]


HC dismisses plea challenging Gopal''s selection as ADJ
[]


12-yr-old burnt alive in Malerkotla
[]


HC upholds MCI decision, PIMS can''t admit students
[]


HC quashes selection of 1,983 PTIs in Haryana
[]


With party''s senior leaders behind bars, INLD to bank on Devi Lal''s achievements
[]


Hooda gifts Rs 90 crore to Rania
[]


If no quota, no vote to Cong: Khap panchayats
[]


2 kg heroin, Pak SIM seized, two arrested
[]


Sidhu wins battle, but may have lost war
[]


Cancer patients plagued by long wait for little funds
[]


Boyfriend held, says marriage refusal may have led to suicide
[]


Cong MLA writes to Sonia seeking change of guard in Punjab unit
[]


Thakur re-elected BCCI joint secretary
[]


Army chief addresses ex-servicemen''s rally
[]


Varsity allows ragging convicts to complete course
[]


Hamirpur-born international NLP expert offers to help with learning levels in Himachal
[]


Now, state will have to pay more to get land for power plant
[]


'Unhappy'', but 'satisfied'' Sidhu calls off fast
[]


Haryana govt draws up scheme for NRIs to aid in state's growth
[]


Muktsar cancer capital of India, children vulnerable: NGO
[]


MP faces litmus test
[]


Sidhu on indefinite fast from today
[]


Navjot Singh Sidhu to begin fast-unto-death from Saturday
[]


Kanda seeks extension of interim bail
[]


Bajwa hopes for alliance with Sanjha Morcha, BSP
[]


Haryana truck operators get one-month exemption from road tax penalty
[]


For foothold in Congress bastion in south Haryana, Oppn set to woo rebel MP
[]


Suzlon to sell 75 pct stake in Chinese subsidiary for $28 million
[]


ERP 9 for BlackBerry now available for Tally.ERP 9 users
[]


Suspected hair in tablet cited in Ranbaxy import alert by FDA: report
[]


SKS Trusts may contest rejection of berth on company's board
[]


ONGC Videsh blocks Chinese bid, to buy stake in Brazilian oilfield
[]


High airfares, thin traffic this festive season
[]


Air India plans to scrap 14 ageing A320s after March
[]


GMR group to sell 74 pct stake in expressway to IIF
[]


Third FDA ban on Ranbaxy threatens its US sales
[]


Vijay Mallya summoned over Rs 600 cr United Breweries (Holdings) debt
[]


US delays Cooper Tire sale to Onkar Kanwar's Apollo Tyres
[]


Tata Sky to invest Rs 900 crore in FY14, eyes 30% growth
[]


United Spirits to be Diageo's sales agent in India
[]


Market capitalisation: 8 firms add Rs 40,620 cr, ITC Ltd, Coal India shares lead
[]


Girl CA student hacks Anil Ambani's income-tax returns account, changes password
[]


Volkswagen launches Polo GT TDI compact hatchback in India at Rs 8.08 lakh
[]


Firms focus on up-skilling available talent than fresh hiring
[]


STMicroelectronics ties up with Hathway
[]


Yahoo teams with Wharton School for advert program
[]


Amazon.in expands adds additional categories ahead of festival season
[]


Shriram Transport Finance to raise up to Rs 500 cr via NCDs
[]


Indian rupee, higher rates to impact credit risk of companies: Moody's
[]


Ex-Infosys Americas head Ashok Vemuri to take over as iGate CEO on Sept 16
[]


Unit sale to cut Jaypee debt by Rs 3,650 cr
[]


Beleaguered BlackBerry cuts dozens of US-based jobs: Report
[]


Aditya Birla Group's UltraTech Cement, Jaypee Cement ink Rs 4,000-cr deal
[]


Unilever CFO stands by India as long-term bet
[]


Indian rupee depreciation has not affected our production: Hyundai
[]


SKS Microfinance says its shareholders have no right to nominate directors
[]


Income Tax Department slaps Rs 1631 cr tax notice on NMDC
[]


Tata Motors' Jaguar Land Rover to invest £1.5 bn in new technology, create 1,700 jobs
[]


General insurance industry expects auto sales to pave the road to growth revival
[]


Jaypee Group to sell some power, cement assets to cut debt: sources
[]


Alfa Romeo and Chrysler delays cast cloud over Fiat
[]


SMEs likely to play important role in pharma growth story: report
[]


India Inc to government: shape up, or we'll ship out
[]


Vijay Mallya in firing line as lenders put squeeze on UB Group assets
[]


Steve Ballmer's retirement: Microsoft rank and file unsettled but optimistic about change
[]


Now, Twitter to solve traffic woes
[]


India has 55.48 cr mobile owners, 14.32 cr Internet users
[]


Weak aluminium prices may impact Hindalco Industries' financials in FY14
[]


Indian rupee fall may jack up premium on car insurance: Industry
[]


Airfare hike: Pax body cries cartelisation, take airlines to CCI
[]


Capitation fee demanded by private colleges illegal: Supreme Court
[]


Cash-strapped Gitanjali plans mega push into Dubai
[]


Kazakh giant oil field: India's loss is China's gain
[]


Warner Bros merchandise arm eyes franchising for faster growth
[]


Electronica India 2013: Govt identifies key areas to strengthen electronics manufacturing
[]


Nitin Nohria appointed Director of Tata Sons
[]


Top-level rejig at Infosys Ltd: Narayana Murthy relying on trusted aides
[]


Tata Chemicals Limited wins Eco Corporate award
[]


Reliance Communications expects 30% growth in enterprises division in 5 yrs
[]


Sony India plans to hike product prices
[]


A third of employers don't communicate with staff on benefits
[]


Govt move to force old gas price for KG-D6 gas illegal: Reliance Industries
[]


National Instruments unveils flagship product
[]


Russia's Mail.Ru sells all its Facebook stock for $525 million
[]


FMCG sector: Govt loss at Rs 16,546 cr due to counterfeit brands
[]


Reliance Industries on track to invest over $24 bn in key projects by 2017
[]


Smoke alarm: Jet Airways flight makes emergency landing
[]


BMW may export bikes developed with TVS Motor
[]


MTS to offer local, STD calls for 10 paise per minute
[]


Nissan Micra diesel hatchback launched at Rs 5.57 lakh
[]


Honda Cars India to continue with 2,500 cr investment plans
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra to invest Rs 10,000 crore on capex
[]


Tata Motors to go ahead with investment of Rs 3,000 cr
[]


Strong hiring for CAs expected despite economic slump: ICAI
[]


India Inc raises $3.71 bn in July via ECB, FCCB routes
[]


Smoke emanates from SpiceJet flight with about 70 passengers on board
[]


Vijay Mallya blames all but himself for Kingfisher Airlines woes
[]


Coal India produces 31.6 MT of coal in August, misses target
[]


Hyundai Motor India August sales up 12 pct at 52,319
[]


Tata Elxsi develops electronic unit for Subaru's hybrid electric vehicle
[]


Bajaj Auto bike sales down 8 pct in August
[]


In change of heart, NR Narayana Murthy's Infosys likely to choose insider as next CEO
[]


VE Commercial Vehicles sales down 17.95 pct in August
[]


TVS Motor total sales in August up 0.57 pct at 1,55,532 units
[]


Corporate Social Responsibility should bring smile to people, not profit for companies: Sachin Pilot
[]


ONGC Videsh Ltd Q1 profit jumps 72 pct to Rs 837 cr
[]


LIC's PSU stake buy 'loss' at Rs 3,000 cr
[]


Most pesky callers on Tata, Reliance, Aircel networks
[]


India receives highest FDI worth $1 bn in pharma in Apr-Jun
[]


Maruti Suzuki workers demand bail for 147 colleagues
[]


Rupture in ONGC pipeline; oil spillage in Bhadbhut
[]


JSPL to buyback shares worth up to Rs 1,000 crore
[]


Indian rupee fall: Tata Steel, Vedanta Resources sit pretty, says Fitch Ratings
[]


Top-level exits clouding Infosys' turnaround, say brokerages
[]


Indian rupee slide to impact Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum most: Fitch
[]


Mercedes-Benz to hike car prices by up to 4.5 pc from Sept 1
[]


Reliance Industries-British Petroleum win approval for $3.18 bn plan for R-Series gas field
[]


Essar Energy names Sushil Maroo as CEO
[]


Govt refutes Novartis' allegations on patents
[]


Fox Traveller launches new music travel show
[]


Amit Singh named Director of Flight Operations for AirAsia India
[]


Toyota launches Camry Hybrid in India, priced at Rs 29.75 lakh
[]


Job cuts on anvil at India Inc, salary hikes to hit dead-end: Survey
[]


Hardcastle Restaurants to invest Rs 300-cr to open 75 McDonald's outlets by FY15
[]


Maruti Suzuki blames slowdown for Gujarat plant fiasco
[]


Reliance Capital to list proposed bank in three years: Anil Ambani
[]


Jubilant FoodWorks to open up to 100 Dunkin' Donut stores
[]


Aspiring Minds, edX tie up to improve employability in India
[]


Operation closure in 13 circle narrows Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd Q2 loss to Rs 845cr
[]


Heineken and Hoyer families to up stake in Heineken Holding
[]


Surplus spectrum: Hearing against Sunil Bharti Mittal, Ravi Ruia on October 28
[]


Rohan Murty set to become Infosys vice president
[]


HUDCO plans to raise up to 12.50 bn rupees via tax free bonds
[]


Reliance Life to sell up to 5 pct to bancassurance partner
[]


Private airlines have Rs 357 cr as dues towards Airport Authority of India
[]


ONGC Videsh Ltd to buy Anadarko's 10% stake in Mozambique field for $2.6 bn
[]


JSW Steel seeks PMO intervention for securing iron ore mining lease
[]


Jukaso Group forays into vacation ownership
[]


Xerox introduces multifunction printers
[]


SapientNitro creates innovative social media campaign
[]


Panasonic launches display solutions targeting biz, colleges
[]


Baring Private Equity Asia to acquire controlling stake in Hexaware Technologies for Rs 2,745 cr
[]


India could emerge among top 5 markets for Coke in next 7 years: Bozer
[]


Reebok India asks govt for 'fair' review of SFIO charges
[]


Canon expands service network in India
[]


Manish Gupta named director of Xerox Research Centre in India
[]


Facing obstacles in exporting planes leased to Kingfisher: ILFC
[]


Falling Indian rupee to impact oil companies, put pressure on deficit
[]


Gulf-based air-carrier Qatar Airways to extend Dreamliner route network to India
[]


MS Dhoni promoted Fitsoul targets Rs 350 cr turnover in 5 yrs
[]


2G Case: Tina Ambani seeks exemption from appearing on August 23
[]


Raksha Bandhan: Delhi Metro to run around 300 extra train trips on August 19-20
[]


Vodafone in multi-million Britain tax settlement: report
[]


Top UK business lobby sees jobless rate falling slowly
[]


DHL walkout likely to hit Tata Motors owned Jaguar Land Rover factories in Britain
[]


Anil Agarwal to be Chairman of new entity Sesa Sterlite
[]


Essar Steel hopes to raise $2 bn by FY'14 end to pare Indian debt
[]


Indecision has Air India losing Dreamliners on Japanese, Korean routes
[]


Worst is likely to over for Indian companies in Europe: Ficci
[]


Consumer durable companies to hike prices this festive season
[]


Novartis lashes out at India for not respecting Intellectual Property Rights
[]


2G spectrum case: Court fixes October 5 for hearing arguments on Subramanian Swamy's plea
[]


Yahoo appoints chairman as Mayer's turnaround effort continues
[]


Companies Bill: Ups and downs for private equity investors
[]


Tecpro Systems Q1 net loss at Rs 60 crore
[]


Veerappa Moily says considering diesel price hike
[]


Plan to sell 2,500 units of iconic Mitsubishi Pajero this fiscal, says Hindustan Motors
[]


Tata Steel shares jump 9% on good quarterly earnings
[]


Airline mergers have already led to higher fares
[]


Tata Steel shares surge after April-June profit doubles
[]


Hindalco Industries net profit up 12% at Rs 474 cr in quarter
[]


Govt allows 13 cos to raise Rs 48,000 cr via tax-free bonds
[]


Mahindra and Mahindra profit up 13.46 pct in quarter at Rs 1,164.6 cr
[]


Britain's Theresa May promises to let parliament vote on Brexit delay
["The dramatic reversal in May's steadfast Brexit strategy came after threats of mass resignations from her own ministers and calls for a second referendum on Britain's EU membership from the main opposition Labour Party.", 'It saw the pound rally to its highest level since May 2017 against the euro - and since October 12 against the dollar - as investor fears of imminent trade gridlock and financial market mayhem eased.', 'The beleaguered British leader told Parliament she would offer MPs the chance to vote on March 14 on a "short, limited" extension of the March 29 deadline if her own divorce proposals fail to win lawmakers\' support by March 12.', 'But she also cautioned that the extra time would not help negotiations and that she herself opposed any delay.', 'May laid out a three-step procedure with a vote in Parliament on her latest Brexit proposals by March 12.', "The deal's defeat would see parliament vote on the following day for the option of leaving the EU club without an agreement.", 'That measure\'s defeat would see May\'s government "on March 14 bring forward a motion on whether Parliament wants to seek a short limited extension of Article 50," May said.', 'She had long argued that the no-deal threat must be kept on the table in order to wrest essential concessions from Brussels.', 'That possibility prompted three junior ministers to "implore" May on Tuesday to fundamentally alter her Brexit approach.', 'Three more senior cabinet members published a similar letter over the weekend.', 'The rebel ministers were all backing a proposed parliamentary amendment that would force May to set a new Brexit date if she fails to get better terms on the disputed issue of the Irish border.', 'Lawmakers will still get a chance to vote on the emergency measure on Wednesday.', "Any delay will likely infuriate powerful eurosceptics in both May's government and party who fear Brexit either being watered down or reversed.", "And those still hoping to avert the split were boosted by the Labour Party's conditional decision to back a second Brexit referendum on Monday.", 'Brexit".', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Mexico president says committed to non-intervention on Venezuela
['Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Kim Jong-un visits North Korean embassy in Hanoi
['A convoy of cars travelled the short distance from the hotel to the embassy before Kim Jong-un got out of his limousine and walked inside, accompanied by his sister Kim Yo Jong and other aides. It is not the first time Kim has visited one of his embassies on his travels - he dropped in to the North Korean mission in Beijing in June last year.', 'North Korean leader Kim Jong-un (R) receiving bouquets on his arrival at the Dong Dang railway station in Dong...', 'A convoy of cars travelled the short distance from the Melia hotel to the embassy before Kim got out of his limousine and walked inside, accompanied by his sister Kim Yo Jong and other aides.', "Before his first summit with Trump in Singapore, Kim went on a night-time tour of the city-state's top sights, including the Gardens by the Bay park and the Marina Bay Sands hotel, casino and convention centre.", 'Speculation has been rife about possible destinations for the North Korean leader in Vietnam, among them a Vietnamese car factory and possibly even a chip plant operated by South Korean electronics giant Samsung.', "In the event journalists gathered outside the hotel saw the convoy leave before it pulled up just minutes later outside the embassy, with Kim's bodyguards jogging alongside his vehicle.", 'His sister got out of one of the first cars in the convoy so that she could welcome him at the gate of the yellow colonial-style building.', 'It is not the first time Kim has visited one of his embassies on his travels - he dropped in to the North Korean mission in Beijing in June last year.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


US should not give aid to Pak until it stops harbouring terrorists: Nikki Haley
['Haley, who has founded a new policy group \'Stand America Now\' that will focus on how to keep the US safe, strong, and prosperous, wrote in an op-ed that when the US provides aid to nations, "it is more than fair to ask what the U.S. gets in return for our generosity" but instead Pakistan routinely opposed the US position at the UN on several issues.', 'Haley, who had stepped down as the US envoy to the UN at the end of last year, has previously strongly criticised Pakistan for continuing to harbour terrorists that turn around and kill American soldiers while taking billions of dollars in foreign aid from the US.', 'In an interview to US magazine \'The Atlantic\' in December, Haley had said the US did not need to give money to countries that wish harm to America, go behind its back and try and "stop us from doing things".', 'Last September, the Trump administration cancelled $300 million in military aid to Islamabad for not doing enough against terror groups active on its soil. Trump had defended his administration\'s decision to stop hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Pakistan, saying Islamabad does not do "a damn thing" for the US and its government helped late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden hide near its garrison city of Rawalpindi.', "Haley's new policy group aims to promote public policies that strengthen America's economy, culture, and national security.", 'The group will provide information to grassroots Americans, to highlight the dangers and the opportunities they face domestically and internationally. It will advocate the policies that strengthen the US at all levels of government and in the broader media and culture.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


US should not give aid to Pak until it stops harbouring terrorists: Haley
['Haley, who has founded a new policy group \'Stand America Now\' that will focus on how to keep the US safe, strong, and prosperous, wrote in an op-ed that when the US provides aid to nations, "it is more than fair to ask what the US gets in return for our generosity" but instead Pakistan routinely opposed the US position at the UN on several issues.', 'Haley, who had stepped down as the US envoy to the UN at the end of last year, has previously strongly criticised Pakistan for continuing to harbour terrorists that turn around and kill American soldiers while taking billions of dollars in foreign aid from the US.', 'In an interview to US magazine \'The Atlantic\' in December, Haley had said the US did not need to give money to countries that wish harm to America, go behind its back and try and "stop us from doing things".', "Haley's new policy group aims to promote public policies that strengthen America's economy, culture, and national security.", 'The group will provide information to grassroots Americans, to highlight the dangers and the opportunities they face domestically and internationally. It will advocate the policies that strengthen the US at all levels of government and in the broader media and culture.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Kim Jong Un arrives in Hanoi for nuclear summit with Trump
["Soldiers, police and international journalists thronged the streets outside Hanoi's Melia Hotel where Kim was set to stay, and hundreds of eager citizens stood behind barricades hoping to see the North Korean leader. As Vietnamese, North Korean and US flags fluttered in a cold drizzle, dozens of cameras flashed and some citizens screamed and used their mobile phones to capture Kim's rock-star-like arrival at the hotel.", "Vietnam's authoritarian leaders set up a huge security apparatus to welcome Kim, shutting long stretches of highway and locking down swaths of the bustling capital city. Earlier in the morning, Kim, grinning broadly and waving, stepped off his armored train at the end of a long ride that started in Pyongyang and wound through China to the Vietnamese border. He shook hands with officials as Vietnamese troops in crisp, white uniforms and black boots stood at attention on a red carpet at the Dong Dang railway station on the China-Vietnam border.", 'Hours ahead of his border crossing, footage from Japanese TV network TBS showed Kim taking a pre-dawn smoke break at a train station in China, a woman who appeared to be his sister, Kim Yo Jong, holding a crystal ashtray at the ready.', "Kim's arrival comes as Vietnamese officials scramble to finish preparations for a rushed summit; they have shared few details about the specifics of a meeting that the world will be watching closely.", 'Trump was flying to Hanoi from Washington and set to arrive later Tuesday.', 'Although many experts are skeptical Kim will give up the nuclear weapons he likely sees as his best guarantee of continued rule, there was a palpable, carnival-like excitement among many in Hanoi as the final preparations were made for the meeting. There were also huge traffic jams in the already congested streets.', 'Officials in Hanoi said they only had about 10 days to prepare for the summit — much less than the nearly two months Singapore had before the first Trump-Kim meeting last year— but still vowed to provide airtight security for the two leaders.', "The ultra-tight security will be appreciated by North Korean authorities, who are extremely vigilant about the safety of Kim, the third member of his family to rule the North with absolute power. Kim's decision to take a train, not a plane, may have been influenced by the better ability to control security.", 'Vietnam is eager to show off its huge economic and development improvements since the destruction of the Vietnam War, but the country also tolerates no dissent and is able to provide the kind of firm hand not allowed by more democratic potential hosts.', 'There are high expectations for the Hanoi summit after a vague declaration at the first meeting in June in Singapore that disappointed many.', 'In a meeting with senior aides in Seoul, South Korean President Moon Jae-in said that the Trump-Kim talks would be a critical opportunity to achieve peace on the Korean Peninsula.', 'Moon, who met Kim three times last year and has lobbied hard to revive nuclear diplomacy between the US and North Korea, is eager for a breakthrough that would allow him to push ambitious plans for inter-Korean engagement, including lucrative joint economic projects that are held back by US-led sanctions against the North.', 'North Korea has spent decades, at great political and economic sacrifice, building its nuclear program, and there is widespread skepticism among experts that it will give away that program cheaply.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


British opposition raises prospect of second Brexit referendum
["Britain's main opposition Labour Party has said it could support a second Brexit referendum as the European Union opened the door to postponing the country's exit from the bloc beyond the March 29 deadline.", 'Britain remains as divided as ever over Brexit, which a narrow majority of voters backed in a June 2016 referendum and speculation that London will ask for more time to negotiate its withdrawal has gathered steam in recent days.', 'President Donald Tusk said he had discussed the "legal and procedural context of a potential extension" when he met May on Sunday on the sidelines of an EU-Arab summit in Egypt\'s Sharm el-Sheikh.', 'The EU has been watching with growing concern the possibility that Britain will crash out of the bloc without a deal, risking chaos on both sides of the Channel.', "Speculation is mounting that lawmakers will in a series of votes this week move to delay Britain's withdrawal to avoid a no-deal Brexit.", 'The opposition Labour Party on Monday raised the pressure, saying it would put forward its own plan for Brexit, which calls for Britain to stay in the EU customs union, as part of those votes.', 'Labour then said if its plan was rejected, it would lend its support to an amendment on holding a second referendum on EU membership — without specifying a date.', 'Corbyn, a lifelong eurosceptic who supports Brexit, has been highly ambiguous throughout the negotiations even though many of his MPs support a second referendum.', 'The Times described Corbyn\'s decision "a significant moment" but added that much would depend on the details of the new policy.', 'On currency markets, sterling rose further on speculation that May could push back the March 29 deadline in a bid to avert a painful no-deal divorce.', 'Adding to her woes, the Daily Mail reported that a group of 23 dissidents met secretly to discuss how to stop Britain leaving the EU without an agreement, with as many as 15 said to be ready to resign.', "Taking a united stand, the EU and its remaining 27 countries have repeatedly rebuffed May's efforts to reopen the Brexit deal struck with her government in November.", 'Since British lawmakers overwhelmingly rejected her withdrawal deal last month, the Conservative prime minister has sought to address their concerns about the text\'s so-called "backstop" arrangement.', 'London wants the "backstop" — the clause binding Northern Ireland into the EU customs union if a new deal to keep the Irish border open is not found -- to be time-limited or to be allowed to unilaterally end it.', 'The EU opposes any changes to an arrangement designed to keep the border between British Northern Ireland and EU member Ireland flowing. It also sees the "backstop" as an insurance policy for the peace process in the UK province of Northern Ireland.', 'Brussels however is not budging, though it is offering political reassurances.', 'Tusk said he told May that "no matter which scenario, all 27 (EU countries) will show maximum understanding and goodwill".', 'During a press conference Monday in Sharm El-Sheikh, May said she believes she can still deliver Brexit on time.', 'She recalled that Britain would first have to request an extension and the remaining 27 EU countries would have to agree to it unanimously.', "May's negotiating team was expected to continue its talks in Brussels on Tuesday.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


US takes 'note' of Iran foreign minister resignation: Pompeo
['Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif is "one of the "front men for a corrupt religious mafia," top US diplomat Mike Pompeo said on Monday following his surprise resignation. Zarif has served as Rouhani\'s foreign minister since August 2013 and has been under constant pressure and criticism by hardliners who opposed his policy of detente with the West.', 'Ali Khamenei.', 'Zarif, 59, announced his resignation on Instagram, but it can only take effect once Rouhani accepts it.', "He has served as Rouhani's foreign minister since August 2013 and has been under constant pressure and criticism by hardliners who opposed his policy of detente with the West.", "His standing within Iran's political establishment took a hit when the US withdrew last year from a deal aimed at curbing Tehran's nuclear program, and the deal's achievements became less and less clear as Iran's economy nosedived.", 'Zarif was blamed by ultra-conservatives for negotiating a bad deal that had not gained anything meaningful for Iran in exchange for all the concessions it had made in its nuclear program.', 'The faceoff between the minister and his critics only intensified as time passed, with Zarif saying his main worry throughout the nuclear talks had been from pressure inside Iran.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


US Journalist's equipment seized at Maduro interview
['Ramos is one of the most influential Spanish-speaking journalists in the US. He told The Associated Press on Monday night that Maduro cut short the interview after 17 minutes when Ramos showed him on his iPad footage shot a day earlier of young Venezuelans eating food scraps out of the back of a garbage truck.', 'Ramos is one of the most influential Spanish-speaking journalists in the US. He told The Associated Press on Monday night that Maduro cut short the interview after 17 minutes when Ramos showed him on his iPad footage shot a day earlier of young Venezuelans eating food scraps out of the back of a garbage truck.', 'The Univision team left after two hours without having their equipment returned.', "Venezuela's government denies Ramos' account and accuses him of trying to stage an international incident after senior State Department officials and Sen. Marco Rubio relayed reports on social media of what they called Ramos' detention.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Pence in Colombia announces new sanctions on Maduro
["The Trump administration announced new sanctions Monday on allies of Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro as it struggles to find new ways to boost his opponent after an effort to deliver humanitarian aid to the economically devastated nation faltered amid strong resistance from security forces loyal to the socialist leader.", "In a speech, Pence urged regional partners to freeze oil assets controlled by Maduro, transfer the proceeds to Guaido and restrict visas for Maduro's inner circle. He said the US was imposing more sanctions on four pro-government governors, including a close Maduro ally who negotiated the release of an American jailed for more than two years.", 'Hours later, Venezuela\'s government issued a statement accusing the US and the Lima Group countries of conducting "a ferocious campaign to oust" Maduro by trampling on basic international human rights.', 'The statement also rejected Pence\'s announcements, accusing him of attempting "to give orders so that other countries join the vulgar plundering" that Washington is pursuing against Venezuela\'s assets.', "Pence's appearance before the Lima Group comes at an important crossroads for the coalition of mostly conservative Latin American nations and Canada that has joined forces to pressure Maduro. A month after Guaido declared himself interim president at an outdoor rally, hopes that support for Maduro inside the military would quickly crumble have faded.", 'While Colombian authorities said more than 160 soldiers deserted their posts and sought refuge across the border over the weekend, the highest-ranking among them was a National Guard major. No battalion or division commanders have come forward to challenge Maduro despite almost-daily calls by Guaido and the US to do so.', "That's left many asking what Guaido and the US can do to break the stalemate.", "The Lima Group, in an 18-point declaration signed by 10 nations and Guaido, reiterated their call on the Venezuelan military to recognize the opposition leader as their commander in chief, urged the International Criminal Court to declare Maduro's aid blockade a crime against humanity and pressed the United Nations to play a bigger role in resolving the crisis.", 'For now, the US is showing no signs it is considering a military intervention to remove Maduro.', "Instead, he stuck to traditional policy tools that so far have only hardened Maduro's resolve. Foremost among them was the addition of four governors to a growing list of more than 50 Venezuelan officials under sanctions and blocked from doing business or having accounts in the US.", 'The most prominent target was Rafael Lacava, the governor of central Carabobo state who played a key role negotiating the release last year of Joshua Holt, a Utah man jailed without a trial for two years on what were seen as trumped-up weapons charges.', 'Pence also said the US would continue to search for places to pre-position aid for eventual delivery to Venezuela, and announced $56 million in new assistance to countries in the region helping to absorb an exodus of more than 3 million Venezuelans who have fled hyperinflation and shortages in recent years.', 'Guaido, in his visit to the Colombian capital, was afforded all the trappings of a head of state. He posed for selfies with well-wishers upon arriving for the summit and stood before a pile of aid boxes stamped with the US flag as he and Pence greeted a group of Venezuelan migrants, including an elderly man who wept as he shook hands with the US vice president and pleaded for help.', "But Guaido's speech to the diplomats was short on specifics despite speculation he would request a military intervention as close ally Julio Borges, the opposition ambassador to the Lima Group, suggested on Sunday.", 'Meanwhile, the Lima Group, which has been staunchly behind Guaido, rejected the use of force.', 'Any additional sanctions will increase the suffering of the Venezuelan people and may lead to more political violence, said Mark Weisbrot, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, who advocates a negotiated end to the political crisis.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Singh not in good terms with each other?', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


US envoy meets top Taliban political leader in Doha as new talks begin
['Khalilzad tweeted that he and Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a co-founder of the Islamist movement, had held a "working lunch" ahead of a fresh round of talks with the insurgent group as the US seeks a way out of its longest war.', 'The arrival in Qatar late Sunday of Baradar, seen as close to Taliban leader Haibatullah Akhundzada, has helped fuel speculation of a breakthrough.', 'Just finished a working lunch with Mullah Beradar and his team. First time we’ve met. Now moving on to talks.', 'There was no accord on a US withdrawal or a ceasefire, however, issues which have derailed attempts at peace talks in the past, while the government in Kabul has voiced increasingly loud fears it was being sidelined from the talks.', "It remained unclear what role Baradar would have during the talks, but the presence of the influential leader widely believed to carry popular support across the Taliban's myriad factions set expectations high.", 'Afghan special envoy for peace Mohammad Omar Daudzai also lauded Baradar\'s participation, saying the insurgent leader was known for being "independent" and making "tough decisions".', "Baradar was arrested in Pakistan in 2010, but was released in October and named as head of the Taliban's political office in Doha.", "He was long considered the number two to Taliban chief Mullah Omar, who died in 2013. Now he is one of several deputies to Akhundzada, along with Omar's son and the head of the Haqqani network, Sirajuddin Haqqani.", 'Meanwhile the government in Kabul continued to voice concerns Monday over being sidelined from the negotiations.', 'The Taliban have steadfastly refused to negotiate with the Kabul government, whom they dismiss as "puppets".', 'The latest negotiations come as violence soars in Afghanistan, with the UN reporting Sunday that more civilians were killed in 2018 than any other year since records began in 2009.', "US President Donald Trump has signalled his eagerness to end his country's involvement in Afghanistan, where 14,000 American troops are still deployed.", 'Afghanistan has suffered nearly constant conflict since the Soviet invasion of 1979, which was followed by civil war, the Taliban regime, and the US invasion in late 2001.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


EU official Tusk calls on Theresa May to delay Brexit
['Tusk said that "all the 27 (member states) will show maximum understanding and goodwill" to make such a postponement possible after two days of talks between May and several European leaders at the EU-Arab League summit failed to produce a breakthrough in the negotiations.', "Britain's Parliament has rejected the deal once, and May has just over a month to get it approved by lawmakers before the UK's scheduled departure day of March 29.", 'Tusk said that "all the 27 (member states) will show maximum understanding and goodwill" to make such a postponement possible after two days of talks between May and several European leaders at the EU-Arab League summit in the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm El-Sheikh failed to produce a breakthrough in the negotiations.', "Britain's Parliament has rejected the deal once, and May has just over a month to get it approved by lawmakers before the UK's scheduled departure day of March 29.", "May says a new vote won't be held this week and could come as late as March 12.", 'At the moment though, and after his talks with her on Sunday, Tusk said that "Prime Minister May still believes that she is able to avoid this scenario" of extending the departure beyond March 29.', 'Tusk refused to say how long such an extension should be as rumors swirled it should go to anything from two months to almost two years.', 'The mechanism, known as the backstop, is a safeguard that would keep the UK in a customs union with the EU to remove the need for checks along the Irish border until a permanent new trading relationship is in place.', 'May wants to change the deal to reassure British lawmakers that the backstop would only apply temporarily.', "But EU leaders insist that the legally Brexit binding withdrawal agreement, which took a year and a half to negotiate, can't be reopened.", 'A group of British lawmakers will try this week to force the government to delay Brexit rather than see the country crash out of the bloc without a deal. They want Parliament to vote on Wednesday to extend the negotiating process.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


EU asks Pak to take 'clear and sustained' actions against terrorists
['Federica Mogherini, high representative of the EU for foreign affairs and security policy and vice president of the EU Commission, urged Pakistan and India to urgently "de-escalate" the tension which has built up after the attack.', 'Security forces personnel arrive for the reinforcement during a gunbattle with the militants in which the top ...', 'ISLAMABAD: The EU has asked Pakistan to take "clear and sustained" actions targeting not only all UN-listed transnational terrorist groups but also individuals claiming responsibility for attacks in the wake of the Pulwama terror strike.', 'Federica Mogherini, high representative of the EU for foreign affairs and security policy and vice president of the EU Commission, urged Pakistan and India to urgently "de-escalate" the tension which has built up after the attack.', 'The EU is also in contact with India, it said.', 'Mogherini also highlighted the need to "continue addressing terrorism including clear and sustained actions targeting not only all United Nations-listed transnational terrorist groups but also individuals claiming responsibility for such attacks" the statement said.', "She said the EU's policy has always been to promote a dialogue between Pakistan and India to sort out differences.", "After the attack, which was claimed by the UN-proscribed JeM, India launched a major diplomatic offensive against Islamabad after the attack and highlighted Pakistan's role in using terrorism as an instrument of state policy.", 'India asked Pakistan to take immediate and verifiable action against terrorists and terror groups operating from territories under its control.', 'New Delhi also announced the withdrawal of the Most Favoured Nation status for Pakistan and hiked the customs duty by 200 per cent on goods originating from Pakistan.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


UN chief launches global push against hate speech
['UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday launched a new global strategy to combat hate speech, a growing scourge he said has "poisoned" debate on crucial challenges like migration. Guterres announced the effort, which will be led by his special adviser on genocide prevention Adama Dieng, at the UN Human Rights Council.', 'UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres adjusts his tie as he arrives at the opening day of the 40th session of ...', 'Governments across the world have watched with concern as racist and other hate speech have coarsened the political climate.', 'France and Germany have raised particular alarm in recent weeks over resurgent anti-Semitism.', "Guterres targeted his rebuke at the vast campaign he said was mobilised against the UN's Global Compact on Migration, a non-binding text that aimed to set out best practices for managing refugee and migrant flows.", 'He condemned "an insidious campaign sought to drown the Global Compact on Migration in a flood of lies about the nature and scope of the agreement".', 'The UN chief noted that the campaign "failed".', 'But 17 countries either abstained or voted against the compact at the General Assembly in December and debate over the text fuelled bitter political debate especially in Europe.', 'Guterres said Dieng, a Senegalese lawyer and veteran UN diplomat, will "define a system-wide strategy and present a global plan of action" to combat hate speech.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Good morning Vietnam! Grinning Kim in colourful station arrival
["A jovial North Korean leader Kim Jong Un grinned and waved as he walked the red carpet from a Vietnamese rail station on Tuesday. Armed guards and sniffer dogs have been spotted at the station, which got a last-minute facelift with lick of fresh paint and new potted plants for Kim's brief welcoming ceremony on Tuesday.", 'Wearing his trademark Mao-style black suit, Kim disembarked from his olive green armoured train surrounded by a crush of security and aides as the guards presented arms.', 'Emerging from the station, he was met by a military band and a swarm of press that had waited overnight in the rain for his arrival.', 'He was quickly ushered into a waiting black Mercedes-Benz, his arm emerging from a rolled-down window to wave to crowds before briefly stopping in front of a group of students in school uniforms gleefully brandishing North Korean and Vietnamese flags.', "Kim's motorcade of 20 or so cars took to the road after his brief swing through the normally sleepy Dong Dang train station in northern Vietnam — a stone's throw from the China border — which has been abuzz with activity in recent days.", "Armed guards and sniffer dogs have been spotted at the station, which got a last-minute facelift with lick of fresh paint and new potted plants for Kim's brief welcoming ceremony on Tuesday.", 'In a last minute-scramble, a guard noticed some of the yellow-starred Vietnamese banners were upside-down and quickly righted them to avoid a diplomatic gaffe.', 'Joining Kim from Pyongyang was his sister Kim Yo Jong, one of his closest aides, who peeled off into a waiting car as her brother walked behind her waving.', 'Kim\'s de-facto chief of staff Kim Chang Son — dubbed his "Butler" — who has been in Hanoi for pre-summit preparations, was also seen at the station as Kim made his Vietnam bow.', "Hoang Thi Thuy, a local official from the Dong Dang women's union, said she had waited in the cold rain since before dawn for a glimpse of Kim.", "Nong Thi Ghi, 33, who works at the local Cao Loc High School, said the most memorable moment was Kim's stroll on the red carpet.", "This is Kim's first visit to the country, and the first time a North Korean leader has been here since his grandfather Kim Il Sung — a close ally of Vietnam's revolutionary leader Ho Chi Minh — travelled to the country in 1964.", 'Observers say he took the train to send a message to North Koreans — and the world — that he is falling in step with his grandfather, whom he frequently echoes in looks and mannerisms, and even his handwriting.', "Kim will be hosted for an official state visit and is expected to visit two provinces to examine examples of Vietnam's post-war economic successes — a glittering turnaround Washington hope Pyongyang can emulate.", "One of those provinces is Quang Ninh, where Vinfast, Vietnam's first homegrown car manufacturer is located. The other is Bac Ninh, home to a Samsung factory, one of Vietnam's leading investors and top exporters.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Pakistan court dismisses ex-PM Nawaz Sharif's appeal, bail plea
["The Islamabad high court's two-judge panel announced its ruling on Monday after the appeal hearings concluded last week. Sharif's aide Shahid Abbasi says the former premier's team will take the case to the Supreme Court. Sharif is in custody in hospital where he is being treated for heart-related issues.", 'Sharif is in custody in hospital where he is being treated for heart-related issues.', 'He and his family members have been embroiled in several trials on corruption charges after the Supreme Court disqualified him from office in July 2017.', 'An anti-graft tribunal had sentenced Sharif to 10 years in another corruption case last year but that sentence was later suspended pending appeal.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


North Korea 'could be great power' without nuclear weapons: Trump
['North Korea could become one of the world\'s "great economic powers" if it relinquishes its nuclear weapons, US President Donald Trump has said on the eve of his departure for Vietnam for a second summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Trump\'s comments came hours after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Pyongyang remains a nuclear threat.', 'Trump and Kim had their historic first meeting in Singapore last June, wherein they agreed on denuclearisation of North Korea.', 'Trump reiterated that he is having a great relationship with Kim.', 'Trump said he was "not in a rush" to denuclearise North Korea.', 'Trump said he has "done really something, very special" with respect to North Korea.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?']


Trump happy if NKorea doesn't test weapons; peace deal possible
["The two leaders pledged to work toward the complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula, but their vague agreement has produced few results. US Democratic senators and security officials have warned Trump against cutting a deal that would do little to curb North Korea's nuclear ambitions.", 'As Kim made his way across China by train for the summit, North Korean state media warned Trump on Sunday not to listen to US critics who it said were disrupting efforts to improve ties.', 'North Korea conducted its last nuclear test, its sixth, in September 2017. It last tested an intercontinental ballistic missile in November 2017.', 'The Trump administration has pressed the North to give up the nuclear weapons programme, which combined with its missile capabilities, pose a threat to the United States, before it can expect any concessions.', 'But in recent days, Trump has signalled a possible softening, saying he would love to be able to remove sanctions if there is meaningful progress on denuclearisation.', 'Trump said he and Kim expected to make further progress at the summit and again held out the promise that denuclearisation would help North Korea develop its economy.', 'Limited deal?', 'A South Korean presidential spokesman told reporters in Seoul the two sides might agree to declare a formal end to the 1950-1953 Korean War at the summit.', 'The war ended in a truce, not a treaty, and the North has long called for a treaty to end it. It also wants security guarantees.', 'The United States has for years demanded North Korea\'s complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation, before any concessions will be granted. North Korea denounced that stance as unilateral and "gangster like".', "Trump's latest comments would appear to support speculation his administration is open to seeking a limited deal at the summit.", 'Declaring an end to a technical state of hostilities that has existed since the 1950s, and allowing some inter-Korean projects like opening a tourism zone in North Korea were other possibilities.', 'The New York Times reported Pompeo has conceded in private discussions with Korea experts that he would be lucky if North Korea agreed to dismantle 60 per cent of what the United States has demanded. That would still be more than any other administration had achieved, he added.', 'The State Department declined to comment on the report.', 'North Korean state media confirmed on Sunday that Kim had left for the summit by train from Pyongyang, accompanied by senior officials as well as his influential sister, Kim Yo Jong.', 'The Rodong Sinmun newspaper, the official mouthpiece of the ruling Worker\'s Party, said on Monday the entire nation received news of the leader\'s long foreign trip with "countless excitement and thrill".', 'Kim’s train passed through the Chinese city of Wuhan at around 7am (2300 GMT on Sunday), Yonhap news agency reported.', 'That would put it on track to arrive in Vietnam by early Tuesday.', 'Vietnam has released few details about arrangements for the summit including its specific location or timing.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?']


French PM urges joint stand to drive back jihadists in Sahel
['French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe (R) meets Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita at the Koulouba palac...', 'But Chergui voiced disappointment in difficulties faced in financing and equipping the force at a time when the future of the current UN mission MINUSMA is uncertain.', 'Large areas of Mail remain out of contril, and the jihadists have gained ground in neighbouring Burkina Faso and Niger, while Chad is battling unrest on its borders.', 'On Sunday he addressed French, Malian, British and Estonian forces saying he wanted to salute the troops\' "remarkable and decisive" results to date, including the recently announced deaths of jihadists leaders Amadou Koufa and, last Thursday, Algerian Djamel Okacha, alias Yahya Abou El Hamame.', 'Saturday he said 2,700 French forces in the region since 2014 "will remain as long as is necessary".', 'The admission sparked an angry reaction from the international association ECA (Ending Clerical Abuse), which slammed the destruction of such documents "illegal" and called for an investigation.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'Do you want fries with your North Korea-US summit?', 'Do you want fries with your North Korea-US summit?']


Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?
['Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?', 'Maybe the winner was so overwhelmed upon seeing the winning numbers that she or he died on the spot? Maybe the winner is on the run from police and fears a background check? Maybe that winning ticket fell from a car visor, ended up in a trash can and is forever buried at the Twin Chimneys Landfill.', 'Jee Patel checks out a customer at the KC Mart on Tuesday, February 19, 2019, in Simpsonville, South Carolina....', 'Maybe the winner was so overwhelmed upon seeing the winning numbers that she or he died on the spot? Maybe the winner is on the run from police and fears a background check? Maybe that winning ticket fell from a car visor, ended up in a trash can and is forever buried at the Twin Chimneys Landfill.', 'Or maybe, the winner is still going on with life as usual, before quietly taking the $878 million lump sum.', 'With less than two months to go, the clock is ticking. Whoever won the second largest lottery in US history has until 5 pm on April 19 to walk into the South Carolina Lottery office in Columbia with the signed ticket and claim the jackpot.', 'Store employee Jee Patel said State Law Enforcement Division agents were waiting in the parking lot when workers came to open at 6 am the next day.', 'Simpsonville is a rapidly growing suburb of about 22,000 people south of Greenville. The store is away from the suburban core on a two-lane road past the four-way stop and several recently constructed subdivisions.', 'Everyone entering the store on a recent cold winter day figured the winning ticket was sold to someone living or working nearby.', 'Christian Porchak lives a mile from the KC Mart, where he bought tickets for the big drawing. He felt a brief rush when he heard it sold the winner.', 'Just as quickly, though, his hopes were dashed as he checked his numbers over — and over — again: "I know I checked every ticket I bought.', 'As with all great mysteries, there are some far out conspiracy theories.', 'If the ticket goes unclaimed, the $1.5 billion prize will be redistributed to the 44 states along with the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia.', "One big loser could be South Carolina, which had budgeted a $61 million income tax windfall from the winner but had to remove that estimate — about 0.5 per cent of the state's annual spending plan.", 'Every taxpayer in South Carolina could have a dinner out on the line. A lawmaker has placed a proposal in the state budget that would give up to a $50 rebate to each person who files income taxes — but only if the state gets its taxes from the lottery winner.', "Another big loser would be the store's owner, who won't receive his $50,000 bonus if the ticket isn't claimed.", 'But Patel said the store got a big boost in sales in the weeks after selling the winning ticket and still gets people who think the luck will rub off on them. That\'s why the half-dozen signs saying "WE SOLD A WINNING MEGA MILLIONS TICKET WORTH $1.5 BILLION" will stay up, Patel said.', 'Jackpots, even big ones, have gone unclaimed before. But this one dwarfs them all.', 'Gordon Medenica, lead director for the Mega Millions consortium, said the biggest Mega Millions jackpot to go unclaimed was a $68 million prize in 2002. That ticket was sold in New York.', "States differ in how long players have to claim their prizes. Medenica said he wouldn't expect someone to come forward immediately. Winners often first get legal and financial advice, and he'd heard theories that the winner was waiting until 2019 for tax reasons. And in South Carolina, as in a handful of other states, winners can remain anonymous, avoiding publicity.", 'But there have been waits in the past for winners to step forward.', "The California winners didn't come forward until about six months later, officials said.", "Back in Simpsonville, theories continue to swirl. Lloyd Hall cuts hair in town. He heard one rumour that the winner worked at a large transmission plant kilometers away but is now just waiting because he doesn't want co-workers to know.", "Another rumour has it that an office pool at the plant bought the ticket but now they're arguing while lawyers negotiate.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'Unclaimed $1.5B jackpot mystery: Winner died? Ticket lost?']


Cozy Up to U.S., Vietnam Tells North Korea. Look What It Did for Us.
['Cozy Up to U.S., Vietnam Tells North Korea. Look What It Did for Us.', 'Cozy Up to U.S., Vietnam Tells North Korea. Look What It Did for Us.', 'All over Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, displays of flags for North Korea and the United States, here made out of paper flowers, were going up before the summit meeting.', 'HANOI, Vietnam — A country once at war with the United States cozies up to its former enemy. Market reforms galvanize its economy, even as the Communist Party remains firmly in control.', 'As Vietnamese officials play host to the summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un of North Korea this week, they are offering up the hope that the North Koreans could somehow mirror Vietnam’s trajectory — transforming from a closed society strangled by central planners to a bustling nation full of capitalist enterprise.', 'In preparation for the two-day meeting that starts on Wednesday, Vietnam’s capital, Hanoi, has been festooned with North Korean and American flags, some of the stars and stripes fluttering upside down. Local restaurants are selling hamburgers garnished with kimchi, and one barber is offering free haircuts mimicking Mr. Kim’s and Mr. Trump’s signature styles.', 'Ideological fraternity has long bound Vietnam and North Korea. Now, as Mr. Kim is expected to tour Vietnamese industrial zones filled with foreign-invested factories, Vietnam has advice that might sound surprising from a nation that ejected American forces from its soil more than 40 years ago.', 'Here’s what’s at stake in the meeting.', 'The Vietnam Military History Museum in Hanoi. Vietnam prides itself on being a small nation that has vanquished foreign powers.', 'Looming over the summit meeting in Hanoi is China, a country that is not a party to the talks but whose rising influence, as well as its territorial forays in the South China Sea and fears of its debt-trap diplomacy in the developing world, is reshaping geopolitics.', 'Mr. Kim’s decision to negotiate directly with Mr. Trump twice within a year has displeased China’s leadership, which remains North Korea’s lone patron, Vietnamese foreign policy analysts say.', 'Although North Korea has depended on China for an economic lifeline, Mr. Kim largely ignored Beijing’s entreaties to cease nuclear tests. Market reforms and a booming black market have enlarged North Korea’s private sector, enabling the country to better weather international sanctions.', 'Vietnam prides itself on being a small nation that has vanquished foreign powers: France, the United States and, most of all, China, its neighbor to the north.', 'As recently as 1979, Vietnam repelled hundreds of thousands of People’s Liberation Army soldiers who poured over the border. This month marks the 40th anniversary of that brief but vicious war, in which more than 25,000 Vietnamese soldiers are believed to have been killed in little more than three weeks.', 'Vietnamese police officers near a hotel where a number of North Korean delegates are staying in Hanoi.', 'In 1976, a year after Ho Chi Minh’s forces unified Vietnam and defeated the American-backed government in the south, North Korea, then richer than Vietnam, began building a kindergarten in Hanoi.', 'Electricity switches, metal beds and bowls for the canteen were imported from North Korea.', 'Today, Vietnam, one of the world’s largest rice exporters, has donated grain to North Korea. While the 470 students at the Hanoi kindergarten still learn the North Korean anthem and two classrooms are named after Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, Mr. Kim’s grandfather and father, the languages of instruction are Vietnamese and English.', 'T-shirts at a Hanoi market promoting peace between President Trump and Kim Jong-un.', 'But for years, Chinese leaders have tried to show their North Korean counterparts the merits of market reforms by a communist state.', 'Although Vietnam has pursued market reforms and was a strong supporter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact, from which the United States has pulled out, the Communist Party has shown little sign of embracing political reform.', 'A number of dissidents have been jailed in recent months. In 2017, Germany accused Vietnamese operatives of traveling to Berlin to kidnap a Vietnamese businessman who was seeking asylum in Germany.', 'On Monday, Lee Howard Ho Wun, an Australian impersonator of Mr. Kim, was forced to leave Hanoi, soon after he and a fake Mr. Trump were detained during a publicity stunt in the Vietnamese capital.', 'Chau Doan contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


After India’s Strike on Pakistan, Both Sides Leave Room for De-escalation
['Pakistan released this photo on Tuesday, which it said showed minor damage in a forested area from Indian airstrikes. Pakistan denied India’s claim that it had inflicted heavy casualties on a militant group.', 'In a statement, Indian’s foreign ministry claimed that airstrikes near Balakot in northern Pakistan had struck “the biggest training camp” of Jaish-e-Mohammad, the group that claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing, killing a “very large number” of militants as they were planning another attack.', 'But in Pakistan, where the domestic tone has been one of fatigue over enduring economic crisis and political ennui, the country’s military command insisted that India’s air incursion had achieved nothing.', 'Prime Minister Imran Khan promised a response to the strikes, which he dismissed as a political ploy by Mr. Modi, carried out for “domestic consumption” before national elections. He shrugged off Indian claims that the airstrikes had resulted in “heavy casualties” or struck a militant training camp, according to a statement issued by his office.', 'In a sign of escalating tensions, Mr. Khan summoned the National Command Authority — the body that oversees the deployment and management of Pakistan’s nuclear arms — for a special session on Wednesday. The prime minister also called for Parliament to meet on Wednesday to discuss a response.', 'With India claiming to have avenged the Kashmir attack, and with Pakistan claiming that India had done no real damage, it seemed possible that the situation could yet be defused. Still, analysts cautioned that the crisis could erupt into something more serious if restraint failed on either side.', 'Residents around Balakot, the scene of the attack in Pakistan, said they saw no sign of any significant damage from the airstrikes.', 'The scene of the Feb. 14 suicide attack in Kashmir.', 'India swiftly blamed Pakistan, which has a history of fostering militant proxies, for directing the attack. But Pakistani officials denied that Jaish-e-Mohammed had the freedom to operate within Pakistan. And Mr. Khan insisted that Pakistan would investigate the attack if India offered evidence.', 'Through decades of tensions, Pakistan and India have gone to war over Kashmir twice, and have pushed to the edge of it many times. The brinkmanship has evolved into a dangerous but almost formalized language of escalation and de-escalation over the years.', 'News of the strikes Tuesday sparked panic on both sides of the border, with Indian and Pakistani residents either fleeing their homes or stockpiling food, fearing a larger outbreak of war.', 'Though India and Pakistan routinely shell each other across the Line of Control, this is the first time since the countries’ war in 1971 that either side has confirmed sending warplanes into the other’s airspace.', 'Residents of the Pakistani village of Balakot, near where the strike occurred, said they had seen no sign of significant damage.', 'A resident of Attar Shisha village inside Pakistan, about 2 miles from Balakot, said he was woken up by loud explosions at about 3:15 a.m. Tuesday. He was reached by phone, and asked to remain anonymous out of fear of reprisal by the Pakistani authorities.', 'The villager said that Jaish-e-Mohammed still ran a school in Balakot, but that the airstrikes missed the facility and hit an empty ravine instead, adding that there were no casualties he had heard of.', 'Mr. Khatana said there had been a buildup of Indian troops over the last few days along the border. Residents of Kashmir rushed to markets to buy essential supplies, worried that tensions would worsen. A major hospital in Srinagar canceled staff holidays and asked employees to be on standby.', 'Balakot and its surrounding area hosted numerous militant training camps until 2005, when a powerful earthquake struck the area, devastating its towns and villages. As international aid groups poured in to provide relief, militants packed up their camps and went elsewhere, to avoid being detected, analysts say.', 'People walked past soldiers in the state of Jammu and Kashmir a few days after the suicide attack. Indian security forces have been trying to stamp out any signs of insurgency in Kashmir.', 'Some worried that the Indian incursion, effective or not, still carried a high risk of military reprisal from Pakistan.', 'The American government has typically been a broker between India and Pakistan, conducting shuttle diplomacy in similarly heated situations. But President Trump has taken a hard line on Pakistan while drawing closer to India since coming to office in 2017.', 'From China, which has traditionally supported Pakistan in moments of international pressure, the message was studiously neutral, calling for restraint from both sides and prioritizing the importance of fighting terrorism.', 'In the run-up to Indian elections this spring, and with Mr. Modi facing a fierce a re-election fight, voters have demanded that New Delhi respond to the Kashmir attack with force against Pakistan.', 'Reporting was contributed by Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan; Sameer Yasir from Uri, Kashmir; Hari Kumar and Jeffrey Gettleman from New Delhi; and Luz Ding from Beijing.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Germany Dispatch: Where Kale Is King (at Least, When It’s Stewed in Schmaltz and Bacon)
['Johanna Eyting harvesting kale at her field in Wiefelstede-Gristede, Germany.', 'WARDENBURG, Germany — The weather was perfect as the group pulled their wagon — decorated with flashing lights and pumping out German pop songs from an industrial speaker — out into the fading winter afternoon light. Warm enough to enjoy a hike through the frost-clad countryside, but cold enough to work up an appetite.', 'No one in the group, save for the Kale King and Queen, knew the route. But everyone knew the next four hours of meandering down byways lined with pastures and fields, stopping at corners for games and several shots of schnapps, were only the warm-up.', 'It’s kale season in northern Germany. That means hiking tours, and all-you-can eat feasts of locally grown kale at restaurants.', 'In this corner of Germany some 50 miles south of the North Sea, kale is more than the essential ingredient for superfood smoothies or a better-for-you-than-broccoli vitamin bomb. It is a season, an event, a tradition.', 'Bavarians’ annual beer festival, Oktoberfest, is known the world around. Carnival parades are common in many parts of Germany’s Rhineland and Roman Catholic south in the months before Lent.', 'But the hikes and feasts surrounding the annual harvest of kale — grünkohl, in German — in the flat lands around Oldenburg and Bremen are unknown internationally and draw blank looks from most Germans.', 'A few years ago, the city of Oldenburg set out to change that. Calling itself the country’s “Kale Hike Capital,” it began promoting events surrounding the winter walks, held from November through late February.', 'The reigning Kale King and Queen, Alexander Schulte-Deme and Margret Wache, in the background, cheering during a walnut-smashing contest.', 'The hikes are organized by groups of families, friends or colleagues, and range in distance from about one to three miles. A royal pair, crowned anew each year — and offering their services as volunteers — are tasked with finding the routes and organizing the next year’s events.', 'During the season, local restaurants and pubs are packed each weekend with long tables of people coming in from the cold for all-you-can eat feasts of locally grown kale, with all the trimmings. That includes a mildly spiced sausage stuffed with groats, a regional specialty known as pinkel.', 'Now everyone is encouraged to bravely lift their forks!', 'One recent Saturday night, a dozen groups of hikers arrived at Wassermühle Wardenburg, a white-stucco restaurant perched beside a pond and topped with a thatched roof. They had spent the day navigating horse paddocks and turned-over fields, and now they were being met with mugs of hot mulled wine.', 'The morning before, a team of cooks had started washing, chopping and stewing the leaves for the kale feast.', 'David Koester, 18, selling fresh kale to a client at the local market in Oldenburg.', 'One of the hikers, Maik Gruel, was more forthcoming about what goes into the dish.', 'Then you cook it another good hour.', 'Dirk Albach, a professor of biodiversity at the Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, shook his head at the long cooking times. It is a convention rooted in the plant’s past, he said, like the belief that the green cannot be harvested until the first killing frost.', 'Unlike the milder variety grown in Italy or the strain popular in the United States, the hardy kale common here is known for its bitterness.', 'It grows increasingly tender the longer it stays on the stem, and takes on more flavonoids as the temperatures drop.', 'At a dinner, the kale is served alongside the sausages and potatoes.', 'The old notions remain, however.', 'The association of kale with the cold is so firmly stuck in people’s minds, farmers have a hard time selling the crop if the temperature is too high, said Eike Frahm, who runs the Grummersort farm co-op.', 'The origins of the hikes are believed to lie in a long-ago practice of wealthy landowners who were out in the countryside for a bit of winter fun.', 'They would drop in on an unsuspecting farmer to warm up, the story goes, knowing a pot of the stewed greens would be found simmering on every stovetop.', 'The dancing floor after the dinner.', 'In recent decades, the tradition has evolved into a festival of local heritage, and a night out with friends. Restaurants and innkeepers offer packages of all-you-can eat meals, followed by a dance.', 'During one recent hike, the reigning Kale King, Alexander Schulte-Deme, halted the group only a few dozen yards in, and announced the first game.', 'Two teams tied hot dogs to strings dangling from their waists and tried, with a dexterous combination of rocking and bending worthy of a fitness class, to take a bite. A walnut-smashing contest and a three-legged race followed later down the road.', 'Raise Your Mugs to German Efficiency!', 'Some Words Defy Translation. Angela Merkel Showed Why.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


George Pell Sex Abuse Conviction Unsealed in Australia
['Cardinal George Pell, a former adviser to Pope Francis, was convicted in December of sexually assaulting two 13-year-old boys in 1996.', 'MELBOURNE, Australia — Cardinal George Pell, the highest-ranking Roman Catholic leader ever convicted of sexual abuse, will not face a second trial on an additional round of assault allegations involving young boys.', 'The earlier verdict was unsealed on Tuesday only after prosecutors decided they could not proceed with the second trial after a legal setback.', 'The decision came just days before the cardinal was set to be sentenced for abusing two 13-year-old choirboys more than two decades ago.', 'Cardinal Pell, 77, was found guilty in December of sexually assaulting the boys. But a judge barred news outlets from publishing anything about the verdict, citing concerns that coverage might influence a jury in the second trial.', 'On Tuesday, with the new trial no longer in the works, the judge lifted the gag order.', 'The earlier case related to abuse that took place in 1996.', 'He was also convicted of an assault in which he grabbed a boy’s genitals.', 'Sentencing proceedings in that trial are expected to begin on Wednesday.', 'The second trial was to focus on allegations of child abuse dating to the 1970s, when he was a parish priest in his hometown, Ballarat, Australia.', 'A jury was expected to hear testimony from three complainants, who were children at the time of the alleged assaults.', 'One child accused the cardinal of touching his genitals on multiple occasions from 1978 to 1979, as they played in the local swimming pool.', 'Another said he had also been abused at the pool, between 1977 and 1979. He said the cardinal had touched his testicles as he was throwing him into the water.', 'A third complainant, whose allegations were not made part of a formal charge, said that in 1975 or 1976, he was playing in the water with Cardinal Pell at Lake Boga, about 200 miles from Melbourne.', 'At one point, he said, he slipped from the cardinal’s shoulders and was hit in the face with his erect penis. The cardinal smiled, the boy said.', 'The verdict in the first trial was made subject to a suppression order that barred publication in Australia of any news related to the case.', 'Read the article about the conviction that was blocked from online publication until now.', 'Prosecutors preparing for the second trial had hoped to prove that his history of abuse proved that Cardinal Pell had a tendency toward molesting children.', 'Under Australian law, a judge may admit such only evidence if its evidentiary value outweighs the risk of prejudice to the defendant.', 'In this case, Judge Peter Kidd of County Court in Victoria ruled, it did not. The prosecution then decided to drop the new cases.', 'The sister of one of the complainants, who asked she not be named to protect her brother, said that while her family was disappointed at the collapse of the second trial, it was “overjoyed” that Cardinal Pell was found guilty in the earlier one.', 'She said she hoped that other people would be encouraged to come forward with their own stories of abuse.', 'The Pell cases come at a time of stepped-up action by the church against abusive clergy members.', 'But survivors and advocates have been disappointed by what they say is a continued lack of action by the church.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


2019 Is a Sensitive Year for China. Xi Is Nervous.
['Pictures of President Xi Jinping at an exhibition for the 40th anniversary of China’s reform and opening up, at the National Museum of China in Beijing last year.', 'BEIJING — China’s leader, Xi Jinping, abruptly summoned hundreds of officials to Beijing recently, forcing some to reschedule long-planned local assemblies. The meeting seemed orchestrated to convey anxious urgency. The Communist Party, Mr. Xi told the officials, faces major risks on all fronts and must batten down the hatches.', 'Whether dealing with foreign policy, trade, unemployment, or property prices, he declared, officials would be held responsible if they slipped up and let dangers spiral into real threats.', 'The speech was one of Mr. Xi’s starkest warnings since he came to power in 2012, and has been echoed at hundreds of local party meetings nationwide.', 'It underscores how slowing growth and China’s grinding trade fight with the United States have magnified the party leadership’s chronic fears of social unrest. Trade talks in Washington between American and Chinese officials ended last week without an official agreement, although President Trump delayed a deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods, saying that negotiators were making progress.', 'There are no political challengers on the horizon who could pose an immediate threat to the Communist Party or Mr. Xi. But his remarks made clear that especially in 2019 — a year of politically sensitive anniversaries — the party would aggressively extinguish sparks that could ignite protests and turbulence.', 'An assembly line in Zhejiang Province. The economy is a major concern for China’s leadership.', 'A year on, though, Mr. Xi’s speech and other official warnings show that triumphalism has receded. Mr. Xi also appeared keen to signal that if anything goes wrong, other officials will also shoulder responsibility, said several experts.', 'Mr. Xi’s warnings were more wide-ranging than his previous repeated calls about risk, experts said, and his defensiveness is likely to constrain policy changes this year. Even though President Trump’s negotiators want China to take big steps in reducing state controls on the economy, Mr. Xi appears to be in no mood for gambles, Mr. Wu said.', 'Mr. Xi made clear that the economy was a major concern, telling officials to beware of “black swans” and “gray rhinos” — investor jargon for surprise economic shocks and financial risks hiding in plain sight.', 'But Mr. Xi identified dangers that extended far beyond the economy, especially political risks like the party’s ability to keep young Chinese from slipping from its ideological orbit.', 'Yet Mr. Xi’s demands for unyielding stability could backfire, experts say, as warnings of danger around every turn could smother the initiative and flexibility that Chinese officials need to defuse long-term economic and social dangers.', 'The demands for rigid order on so many fronts put local cadres in near impossible binds, they said: trying to prevent job losses while cutting debt and shutting inefficient “zombie” businesses; trying to buoy private investment while cracking down on pollution and bank credit; and proclaiming public confidence in the government while stifling complaints from the public.', 'China’s jumpiness can seem far-fetched, given the Communist Party’s daunting reach, the underlying strength of the economy and the extensive powers of the domestic security services.', 'But anxiety seems to run deep in Mr. Xi’s veins.', 'He is the son of a revered Communist revolutionary, and since coming to power he has hinted at worry that party power could easily slip away.', 'A ceremony at Tiananmen Square in September. It is 30 years since student protests ended in a bloody crackdown around the square.', 'Since Mr. Xi, 65, abolished the term limit on his presidency last year, murmurs of discontent have risen among academics, businesspeople and former officials, despite censorship and the security police.', 'The government is also preparing grand celebrations in October to commemorate 70 years since Mao founded the People’s Republic of China.', 'Workers’ Activism Rises as China’s Economy Slows. Xi Aims to Rein Them In.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jorge Ramos, Univision Anchor, Said He Was Detained by Venezuelan Government
['Jorge Ramos, a news anchor for Univision, in Caracas, Venezuela, on Monday after he and his team were released.', 'BOGOTÁ, Colombia — Jorge Ramos, a news anchor for the television network Univision, said he was detained by the Venezuelan government during a confrontational interview with President Nicolás Maduro on Monday evening at the Miraflores Palace in Caracas.', 'Mr. Ramos said he had been detained for “more than two hours” before he was let go and allowed to return to his hotel. He said the government had confiscated his crew’s equipment, including their phones and memory cards.', 'On Monday night, Kimberly Breier, the assistant secretary of state for the Western Hemisphere at the State Department, said that Mr. Ramos had been detained and called on the government to release him immediately.', 'Venezuela’s government did not dispute the account of Mr. Ramos being temporarily held, but appeared to lay the blame on the anchor.', 'Univision is the largest Spanish-language television network in the United States.', 'Mr. Maduro has until recently stuck to friendly interviews with state television outlets.', 'But since the current crisis, where he faces a major challenge from Venezuela’s opposition, whose leader, Juan Guaidó also claims the presidency, Mr. Maduro has conducted a number of interviews with international media outlets including the BBC, Eurovision and ABC, which also conducted an interview with him on Monday.', 'Then, Mr. Ramos said, he was detained.', 'Later on Monday night, Mr. Ramos, who writes a column that is syndicated by the New York Times Licensing Group, told Reuters that he and his crew would be deported on Tuesday.', 'With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Cubans Approve a Constitution, but Opponents Speak Out
['A billboard in Las Tunas, Cuba, promoted voting “yes” for a new constitution.', 'MEXICO CITY — Cubans voted to approve a new constitution, the government announced Monday, but the growing boldness of those opposing its policies seemed to overshadow the modest legal changes that were on the ballot.', 'Nearly 87 percent of Cubans who cast ballots voted “yes” in Sunday’s referendum, the National Electoral Commission said, according to Cuban media reports. But about 15 percent of voters stayed home, and those Cubans, along with the ones who voted “no,” represented an unusual show of opposition in the one-party state.', 'While the final result presents no real challenge to the leadership of President Miguel Díaz-Canel and the continued control of the Cuban Communist Party, it reflects the growing confidence of diverse groups that have pushed back against official decisions in recent months and forced the government to negotiate.', 'Evangelical groups protested a provision in the proposed constitution that would have legalized same-sex marriage, artists demanded the repeal of a decree they said would give the government more power to censor them, and small private businesses bristled at new regulations.', 'While it is unclear how far these voices of civil society will resonate, they reveal the narrow line that Mr. Díaz-Canel is walking between a conservative old guard and an increasingly pluralistic society.', 'President Miguel Díaz-Canel of Cuba is walking a fine line between a conservative old guard and an increasingly pluralistic society.', 'Without the authority that Fidel and Raúl Castro enjoyed as leaders of the 1959 revolution, and with no real economic improvement that he can point to, Mr. Díaz-Canel, who succeeded Raúl Castro as president last April, is seeking to establish his legitimacy. To do that, analysts say, he is cultivating an image of a president who is responsive to people’s needs.', 'At the same time, the widening reach of the internet makes it easier to mobilize groups around a single issue, and independent voices have multiplied online as Cubans have tested the limits of free expression.', 'In December, Cuba introduced 3G service, which allows people with mobile phones to access the internet, sign on to social media and read foreign media. Service is expensive, and for many Cubans, packages cost from almost a quarter to a full month’s salary, but those who work in the private sector or receive money from relatives abroad can afford it.', 'In some ways, the new constitution is catching up to Cuba’s changing reality as it assures the continuity of the political system. It recognizes private property and foreign investment and gives legal status to Cuba’s opening to the private sector, now almost a decade in the making. Some 30 percent of Cubans are self-employed or work in small businesses.', 'But the document maintains the one-party state and socialist management of the economy, does not recognize the separation of powers and does little to broaden civil and political rights. Indeed, the final text that voters endorsed proved to be more conservative than the draft that was presented last summer.', 'The government held public consultations across the country and invited citizens to submit their proposals. But it ignored some suggestions, like the call for citizens to elect their president directly, and incorporated more conservative language, including new limits on the press.', 'Most significantly, it restored the word “communism” in the final version and scaled back a proposal to allow same-sex marriage. That suggests that the “most conservative and unmovable” sector of the Cuban elite prevailed in the debate over the text, wrote Rafael Rojas, a Cuban historian at Cide, a Mexico City university.', 'In December Cuba introduced 3G service, which allows people with mobile phones to access the internet, sign on to social media and read foreign news outlets.', 'Ted Henken, a Cuba expert at Baruch College of the City University of New York, said that the constitutional vote was an important effort to establish legitimacy for Mr. Díaz-Canel. He has “an easily digestible, more hip image that is covering over the same unworkable revolutionary edifice,” Mr. Henken said.', 'The government had campaigned heavily for ratification, as its appeals filled radio and television programming, and billboards declaring “Yo Voto Sí” covered Cuba’s streets.', 'With little open opposition, the government’s campaign on behalf of the changes seemed to some to be excessive, at times including accusations that those who would vote “no” were siding with Cuba’s “traditional enemies” — a veiled reference to the United States.', 'But on social media, some Cubans spoke up, anyway, to declare that they would vote “no.” In one test of government monitoring, people sent text messages declaring “Yo Voto No,” but the messages never arrived, though the senders were charged texting fees, Mr. Henken said.', 'Ms. Padrón said she was voting against the new constitution because she disagreed with having one party, the Communist Party, remain above all other government institutions and with the enshrinement of only one economic model, socialism. Her opposition was also rooted in the document’s failure to guarantee basic political freedoms, she added.', 'Evangelical churches hung posters declaring: “I am in favor of the original design. Marriage: Man+Woman,” thought to be an unprecedented public display of opposition to a government proposal to legalize same-sex marriage.', 'But expressing opposition offline is more complicated. José Daniel Ferrer García, a leader of the dissident group Patriotic Union of Cuba, was briefly detained twice this month, most recently as he protested in a park in Santiago de Cuba with a large handmade “no” sign.', 'The police also raided his home and those of several other activists, taking computers and camera equipment, he said.', 'The biggest surprise came from evangelical churches, which opposed a proposal in the initial draft to recognize same-sex marriage.', 'Almost a quarter of the proposed changes submitted to the government drafting commission dealt with the article that would have defined marriage as a union between two people. Most of these comments were in opposition, the government said.', 'Evangelical churches hung posters on their facades declaring: “I am in favor of the original design. Marriage: Man+Woman” in a presumably unprecedented public display of opposition to the government proposal.', 'In the end, the government backed down and removed the article, but promised to bring up the issue again under a change in the country’s civil code.', 'The Cuban government campaigned heavily for approval of a new constitution. Ratification appeals filled radio and television programming, and billboards declaring “Yo Voto Sí” covered Cuba’s streets.', 'The partial retreat on same-sex marriage came on the heels of another concession, this one to private business owners. In an effort to regulate the private sector, new rules would have limited Cubans to only one business license, and the number of seats in restaurants to 50.', 'But in early December, the government agreed to lift those proposals — although it kept many others — after protests by the private sector. And in the constitution’s final version, a proposal to “limit” the concentration of property was altered to say the government would “regulate” it.', 'At the same time, he said, the government portrayed its backtracking on the new rules as evidence of Mr. Díaz-Canel’s new approach.', 'The government was less willing to completely overturn its proposal when it came to a new decree regulating artists, one that artists said would lead to arbitrary censorship. Instead, the government said it would study the implementation of the rules.', 'But the government reversals can be read in a different way, Mr. Henken said. “Mr. Díaz-Canel has a lot less power to dictate,” he said. “He has a more difficult balancing act.” He “had to keep the old guard in his corner” even as he tried to build bridges to religious groups, artists and the private sector.', 'Cuban society is becoming more heterogenous socially and economically, Mr. Henken said. But is the government’s response to these diverse groups a sign of its increasing tolerance or of their growing demands? The answer is not clear, Mr. Henken said.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Battle at the Venezuelan Border
['Venezuelan officials blocked the border with Colombia in a bid to keep out humanitarian supplies. On Saturday, opposition supporters salvaged goods from a truck set on fire in a clash on a border bridge.', 'Would Venezuelan soldiers turn away food for their own people? The opposition rolled the dice.', 'Venezuelan officials blocked the border with Colombia in a bid to keep out humanitarian supplies. On Saturday, opposition supporters salvaged goods from a truck set on fire in a clash on a border bridge.', 'CÚCUTA, Colombia — Border standoffs may not get much stranger than this one.', 'Three presidents, a military plane and a lineup of pop artists brought by a British billionaire arrived at a border city known to few before it became famous as the site of a military blockade by Venezuela’s defiant president, Nicolás Maduro.', 'Mr. Maduro was determined to keep foreign aid out of his country, and the Venezuelan opposition saw an opportunity. Their plan: to break the blockade on Saturday, a culminating act of defiance meant to force the military to choose between allowing food into a hungry nation and loyalty to Mr. Maduro.', 'It was Mr. Maduro who had made the first move.', 'Earlier this month, as food donated largely by the United States made its way to the Colombian border town of Cúcuta, his government barricaded an already-closed border bridge between Colombia and Venezuela, using tanker trucks and containers.', 'The president’s defenders accused the Americans of trying to foment a coup with the aid — a kind of Trojan horse, they said. The intent, they said, was not to relieve Venezuela’s hunger but to destabilize the Maduro government.', 'Colombian security forces standing guard Feb. 17 by shipping containers placed by Venezuelan security forces to block the border.', 'Juan Guaidó hanging from a cargo truck in Colombia on Saturday before it set out for the border.', 'Fighting broke out between protesters and Venezuelan security forces when aid trucks tried to make it across a bridge.', 'With the border sealed, the political skirmishing intensified — and the focus was on the aid piling at the border.', 'The show, which took place on the border bridge where the supplies had been staged, was part musical gathering, part political rally as celebrities and concertgoers took to the microphone to condemn the Maduro government.', 'Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, touring an aid warehouse in Colombia on Feb. 17.', 'Richard Branson, the British businessman, at a Venezuela aid concert on the Colombian side of the border on Friday.', 'Protesters at the entrance to the Tienditas Bridge, which connects Colombia and Venezuela, on Saturday.', 'The next morning, Saturday, Mr. Guaidó took center stage, hopping on board an aid truck and vowing that it would enter his country.', 'The day began peacefully.', 'Many demonstrators awoke in an empty lot where they had camped overnight, and a member of the clergy offered a prayer for their safety. They then slowly made their way to the bridge.', 'Their plan: to accompany the aid on foot, in the form of a human shield, holding roses and singing the Venezuelan anthem.', 'But things quickly turned chaotic.', 'After national guardsmen began firing tear gas at the protesters, hope of an agreement between the two sides seemed to slip away.', 'Soon demonstrators were hurling rocks back at the soldiers, a descent into the kind of violence that has stymied past protest movements in Venezuela.', 'As the storm was brewing, Mr. Maduro and his wife, Cilia Flores, were far from the border, and enjoying another sort of day. They held a rally where they danced salsa before supporters.', 'Nicolás Maduro waving the Venezuelan flag during a march in Caracas, the capital, on Saturday.', 'Opposition supporters unloading supplies at the Francisco de Paula Santander Bridge.', 'A Venezuelan police officer was escorted by Colombian officers after abandoning Mr. Maduro’s government.', 'At the bridge, the chaos only grew.', 'Scores of Venezuelan national guard members began to defect into Colombia, some coming in with wounds. They crossed under the border bridges to the cheers of crowds.', 'And some of the aid had begun to make it through.', 'Venezuelan national guardsmen seized a protester near the border with Colombia.', 'Protesters debated what to do with a man they had captured during clashes with security forces. He was accused of being a paramilitary member.', 'Smoke billowing from aid trucks on the Santander Bridge.', 'What the opposition had hoped would be a day of peaceful protest had turned deadly. Four people were killed, and many others were arrested and taken to Venezuelan jails.', 'Mr. Maduro, enraged at the help President Iván Duque of Colombia had given protesters, cut off diplomatic ties with Colombia.', 'Eventually, the crowds abandoned the bridge, but some young men remained to keep fighting, throwing stones and hurling homemade bombs at government forces.', 'Venezuelan security forces shooting buckshot and tear gas at protesters under the Santander Bridge on Sunday.', 'Protesters preparing fire bombs next to the Santander Bridge.', 'Residents of Ureña, Venezuela, took to the streets a day after clashes between protesters and the national guard.', 'And the political standoff seemed to have come full circle.', 'Venezuelans were in as much need of food as ever, the aid was sitting useless in Colombia, and Mr. Maduro appeared to remain fully in power.', 'Things had changed, however, for Mr. Guaidó.', 'He was not able to cross back into Venezuela with the aid, as he had promised. And now he was in Colombia. It was unclear whether Mr. Maduro would permit him to return.', 'Protesters stacked up barrels to get onto a bridge where a cargo truck filled with aid was burning on Saturday.', 'With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Egypt’s el-Sisi Welcomes European Union Leaders, but Not Their Scolding on Rights
['President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, right, and President Donald Tusk of the European Council, center, at the first European Union and Arab League summit in Egypt, which ended Monday.', 'CAIRO — President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, whose government has jailed critics, muzzled the independent press and executed nine prisoners in the past week, has never appreciated lectures on human rights.', 'But the subject seemed to especially irk the authoritarian leader on Monday when, at the end of a major summit meeting with European and Arab leaders, he lashed out at Europeans who dared to question his record.', 'The outburst was a mark of the often awkward embrace between European Union and Arab League leaders in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, at their inaugural summit to broker closer ties on issues like migration and terrorism.', 'In a strongly worded closing speech, Mr. el-Sisi accused prosperous European nations of showing little understanding of the pressures facing Arab countries threatened with conflict. He trenchantly defended his use of the death penalty. When he finished speaking, the hall of mainly Egyptians, including members of the country’s media, burst into applause.', 'The event, which gathered Arab leaders from across a region rived by conflict and political strife, was never going to be easy for the Europeans in terms of its political optics. The European Union once had an arms-length relationship with authoritarian rulers like Hosni Mubarak, who ruled Egypt for almost 30 years before his ouster in 2011.', 'But worries about terrorism and illegal migration, as well as a desire to make lucrative arms sales, have drawn European leaders closer to authoritarian leaders like Mr. el-Sisi — a stance critics say encourages their excesses at a time when the United States is often silent on rights abuses.', 'President Emmanuel Macron of France was feted in Cairo on a three-day visit in January. In 2017, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany dined with Mr. el-Sisi beside the pyramids.', 'King Salman of Saudi Arabia on Sunday at the Arab-European Summit in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt. It was his first foreign trip in 16 months.', 'At the conference, much of the media focus was on the British prime minister, Theresa May, and her efforts to find a way through the imbroglio of Britain leaving the European Union. There was speculation of a potential “deal in the desert” with European leaders, but one failed to materialize.', 'The talks between the Arab and European states did not produce much in the way of concrete results. But Europe’s leaders signaled their desire to consolidate their sphere of influence as Russia and China move to fill the vacuum left by a retrenching United States.', 'Saudi Arabia was represented by King Salman, 83, on his first foreign trip in 16 months, an interval that heightened speculation that his health or his mental capacities were declining.', 'In an editorial, the London-based newspaper Al-Quds al-Arabi accused European leaders of shamefully endorsing Mr. el-Sisi’s repression. Mr. Tusk, the European Council president, said he insisted on human rights being included in the summit’s final declaration.', 'Ultimately, the optics of Monday’s summit are less important than the follow-through by European countries, said Andrew Stroehlein, the European media director at Human Rights Watch. “We rarely say countries should never meet with a dictator or a bad guy,” he said.', 'Ben Hubbard contributed reporting from Beirut.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What Goes On in Those Brexit Talks in Brussels? ‘Nothing,’ Document Says
['The president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain at the European Union headquarters in Brussels this month.', 'BRUSSELS — Since her Brexit plan was overwhelmingly rejected last month, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain has repeatedly set off for Brussels, ostensibly to negotiate new terms for her country’s departure from the European Union.', 'After each round of talks, top European officials provide a private readout to senior European diplomats, who in turn transcribe this for their own use. A European diplomat provided The New York Times with a copy of his document, which is a mixture of direct quotes and commentary. A spokesman for the British government in Brussels had no comment.', 'Ms. May suggested there was a possible alternative, but apparently did not offer any details about what that might be. “May did not explain what she meant by alternative arrangements to the backstop. Not at all,” the document states.', 'The summary reveals what many observers have long concluded: that for all the political rhetoric, talks between Britain and Europe have gone nowhere. The document underscores Europe’s growing conviction that Ms. May has no proposal to resolve the current deadlock in negotiations and is too politically hobbled to propose one. The document paints a picture of an essentially fruitless negotiating process in recent months that is kept alive largely to buy time for Mrs. May’s political brinkmanship at home.', 'Mrs. May and the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, at a summit meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on Sunday.', 'Mr. Tusk encouraged Mrs. May to work with Jeremy Corbyn, the left-wing leader of the opposition Labour Party, to forge a compromise. But Ms. May replied that, while the two had been in touch, members of her own Conservative Party were unlikely to get behind any of his ideas, according to the summary.', 'Mr. Tusk suggested that, whatever deal Mrs. May envisioned, she should build support for it in London before asking leaders of other European nations to support it. That would avoid a repeat of last month’s spectacular defeat, in which Parliament roundly rejected a Brexit deal that Mrs. May had brokered with Europe.', 'The result, he said, was that Ms. May went into negotiations without a position and without anything to request. “She’s saying, ‘I need you to give me something. Tell me what it is,’ ” Professor Travers said.', 'But time is running out. Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union on March 29, and business leaders, economists and other experts warn that leaving without a deal on trade, borders and other issues could be disastrous.', 'With no support for the withdrawal agreement she brokered, and no sign that she can negotiate a better one in the next few weeks, Mrs. May has few options. Opposition party members have accused her of stalling for time, gambling that lawmakers will ultimately back her deal when faced with the prospect of a either no-deal Brexit or no Brexit at all.', 'Many European officials also see that calculation at work. The document obtained by The Times concludes that Ms. May’s visit was essentially a stalling tactic.', 'Theresa May Stalls on Brexit. Again. And Again. And Again.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


May Allows Parliament Vote for a Short Extension to Delay Brexit
['U.S.']


Trump and Kim Jong-un Meet Again: Here’s What’s at Stake
['President Trump arrived on Tuesday in Vietnam.', 'SEOUL, South Korea — President Trump arrived in Vietnam on Tuesday to discuss denuclearization with Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, capping off months of threats and weapons tests, recriminations and rapprochements.', 'As the men prepared to meet for the second time in eight months, their avowed goal of achieving a lasting peace and “complete denuclearization” remained elusive, but the once-imminent threat of war felt even more removed.', 'After the two leaders met in June, tensions eased dramatically — the North stopped testing weapons, and the United States halted military exercises with the South. But the leaders did not iron out a clear path to denuclearization.', 'Kim Jong-un arriving in Lang Son, Vietnam, on Tuesday.', 'The negotiators have faced the same thorny issues that have doomed all previous attempts at ridding the North of its nuclear weapons.', 'What is “denuclearization”?', 'The United States and North Korea have yet to agree on what “complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” entails.', 'Washington wants the “final, fully verifiable” dismantlement of all of North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction, their delivery systems, fissile materials and production facilities. But North Korea has indicated, at times, that it will not give up its nuclear deterrent until the United States removes its 28,500 troops from South Korea and keeps its long-range bombers, aircraft carriers and other nuclear-capable military assets away from the peninsula.', 'How quickly would the deal take effect?', 'North Korea had committed to denuclearization and then dragged its feet. This time, Washington wants the North to commit to a specific timeline so that it won’t string out the process indefinitely.', 'What comes first, American concessions or the North’s disarmament?', 'Both sides have exchanged lists of what they expect the other to do to implement the Singapore deal. The North’s list is long. It wants the United States to lift sanctions; replace the 1953 armistice that halted the Korean War with a peace treaty; normalize diplomatic ties; provide economic aid; and, possibly, withdraw its troops from South Korea.', 'The real difficulty comes in figuring out what actions and rewards are mutually acceptable and the order in which they should be deployed. North Korea insists on moving “in phases” toward complete denuclearization to ensure that Washington delivers “action-for-action” steps to keep its end of the bargain.', 'How would the North be kept honest?', 'Washington has demanded that North Korea declare the locations and other details of its entire nuclear inventory and allow for international inspections. North Korea has said it will not do that until it knows it can trust the Americans. Past talks between the two sides collapsed over this difference.', 'Analysts say North Korea would never give up its nuclear arsenal in a quick, one-shot deal, but would instead insist on a series of concessions.', 'American negotiators, who do not want to give away their best bargaining chip, may offer noneconomic incentives instead.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Breakfast With Kim Jong-un? Some American Reporters Came Close(ish)
['Police officers in front of the Meliá Hotel in Hanoi, Vietnam, on Monday.', 'Vietnamese officials, too, have been working hard to set up facilities where thousands of visiting reporters can easily tap on laptops, upload video footage and record voice-overs.', 'A moment later in the video, a man with a security badge waves a hand disapprovingly at Ms. Fisher.', 'Vietnam and North Korea are both run by authoritarian governments that prohibit independent domestic media and typically go to great lengths to squash political dissent and control the flow of information.', 'But even Vietnamese officials were frustrated by the 11th-hour changes forced upon them by the North Koreans before the Hanoi meeting, an American diplomat said.', 'The diplomat, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the news media about the subject, said that his comment did not refer specifically to the Meliá issue, but to multiple site changes that had caused headaches for all involved.', 'When it was first reported in South Korea on Tuesday that Mr. Kim would stay in the same hotel as the American press center, many analysts expressed surprised.', 'But it may affect American journalists, even if they booked rooms at hotels other than the Meliá, because now they will have to file their stories from somewhere else.', 'The international media center for the summit meeting, where the White House press corps will be moved, is downtown in a Soviet-style events center of pillars and chandeliers that was built in 1985. Rows of desks have been placed in various rooms, which are usually hired out for concerts and weddings.', 'On Tuesday afternoon, one anteroom in the media center was being prepared for “the special launching ceremony of the stamps set ‘DPRK-USA Hanoi summit.’ ” The media cafeteria — which was offering Vietnamese spring rolls, beef braised with red wine and “assorted bread with butter” — required coupons, in the typical communist canteen style. Women in traditional Vietnamese dress stood at the entrance collecting the meal tickets.', 'At the Metropole this week, all guests have been required to pass through metal detectors and to show specially stamped identification papers to enter.', 'The South Korean news media reported on Tuesday that the summit meetings on Thursday could take place at the Metropole. Guests have also been informed that some of the hotel’s facilities would have limited access from Tuesday through Thursday night.', 'Mike Ives reported from Hong Kong. Hannah Beech and Motoko Rich contributed reporting from Hanoi, Vietnam; and Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Theresa May Promises U.K. Parliament a Vote to Delay Brexit
['Prime Minister Theresa May’s concession on Tuesday followed a rebellion not by the right-wing pro-Brexit faction in her party, but by pro-Europeans.', 'LONDON — Britain’s Prime Minister Theresa May on Tuesday bowed to overwhelming pressure to reduce the risk of a disorderly departure from the European Union, accepting that Parliament should have the chance to delay Britain’s exit if it rejects her withdrawal plans next month.', 'Mrs. May’s concession, in the face of an internal rebellion, was the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole her fractious party into supporting a revised version of the deal on withdrawal, or Brexit, that lawmakers threw out by a massive margin last month.', 'Mrs. May’s hand was forced by rebels in her own Conservative government, who had threatened to vote on Wednesday for an amendment that could force her to request an extension of Brexit talks if she is unable to get her blueprint through Parliament.', 'In return for her promise of a vote on an extension, Mrs. May asked those rebels to wait once again, this time until March 12 at the latest, when she plans to bring her revised deal back to Parliament.', 'If lawmakers then reject the deal, she says, they should have the opportunity in the next two days to vote on whether to delay Brexit for a short time or to opt for a “no deal” departure — something that a large majority in Parliament opposes.', 'Yvette Cooper, a Labour lawmaker, helped to craft an amendment that aims to prevent a no-deal Brexit. A vote is expected Wednesday.', 'Mrs. May said that Britain would “only leave without a deal on March 29 if there is explicit consent for that outcome.” However, she added, “I don’t want to see Article 50 extended,” referring to the treaty section that governs the withdrawal process.', 'It remained unclear whether the offer would be enough to allow Mrs. May to avoid another parliamentary defeat on Wednesday; her opponents would in any case have expected a chance to try to amend the government’s plans during the crucial vote in March.', 'And while her move lessens the risk of a potentially disastrous “no deal” Brexit on March 29, Britain’s scheduled departure date, it is unclear for how long that danger would be staved off. A postponement of the Brexit date would also require the consent of all 27 other European Union governments.', 'Nevertheless, the announcement is an acceptance of the strength of opposition in Parliament to leaving without an agreement.', 'Until Tuesday, Mrs. May had insisted that the possibility of Britain leaving the European Union without an agreement and the damage that such a move could do to continental economies gave her crucial leverage in negotiations with the bloc.', 'This was the latest in a long line of tactical retreats made by Mrs. May as she pushes the moment of decision on Brexit closer to the deadline. Critics accuse her of running down the clock in the hope that Parliament will vote for her unpopular deal as the only way to avoid the worse fate of a cliff-edge departure.', 'The opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, seems to have been stringing his Labour Party along too, on Monday declaring his support for a second referendum on Brexit that many in his party favor. But most analysts say there is little chance Parliament will support the measure.', 'From left: David Gauke, Amber Rudd and Claire Perry are among the ministers who have said they might vote for the amendment.', 'For Mrs. May, her concession on Tuesday was unusual to the extent that it followed a rebellion not by the perennially troublesome right-wing pro-Brexit faction in her party, but by the more pragmatic pro-Europeans. Last week three Conservative lawmakers quit the party to join a group of eight rebels from Labour, sitting together as an independent group.', 'But further Conservatives, including ministers, are appalled at the damage being inflicted on the economy by the uncertainty caused by Brexit and are determined to stop an ill-prepared business sector plunging over the cliff edge next month.', 'They have been agonizing on what to do on Wednesday when Parliament is expected to vote on an amendment crafted by a Labour lawmaker, Yvette Cooper, and a Conservative veteran, Oliver Letwin, that aims to prevent Britain lurching into a possibly chaotic exit without an agreement.', 'If it succeeds, Mrs. May would have until March 13 to get a Brexit deal approved but, failing that, Parliament could force her to request an extension in the withdrawal talks under Article 50 of the European Union treaty.', 'Normally, ministers who voted against the government would either resign or be fired.', 'A similar amendment failed by 23 votes last month, but since then the mood has darkened as exit day approaches and some jittery businesses have started to bolt the country, so defeat for Mrs. May is a real prospect.', 'Theresa May Stalls on Brexit. Again. And Again. And Again.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


North Korea, India, Chicago: Your Tuesday Briefing
['President Trump arrived in Hanoi, Vietnam, today.', 'President Trump landed in Hanoi, Vietnam, today for his second summit meeting to discuss denuclearization with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.', 'Tensions eased dramatically after the two leaders met last year, although the North has not taken substantial steps since then toward giving up its nuclear arsenal.', 'As the first day of Mr. Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong-un ends, his former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, is set to testify publicly against him in Congress.', 'Pakistan said the strikes had done little damage, and Prime Minister Imran Khan dismissed them as an effort by his Indian counterpart, Narendra Modi, to shore up his popularity ahead of elections.', 'Antigovernment demonstrators clashed with Venezuelan security forces on the border with Colombia on Monday.', 'Mr. Pence, who met with Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, in Colombia, also warned countries in the region, particularly Mexico and Uruguay, that they could not remain neutral in the crisis.', 'Have dark forces been messing with the universe?', 'The universe seems to be expanding far more rapidly than it should be. Astrophysicists have struggled to account for the discrepancy. They’ve been coming up with new ideas, which, if borne out, could mean rewriting the story of the origin of the cosmos, and its ultimate fate.', 'We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Susanne Fischer of New York suggested the Oxford comma, which was traditionally used at Oxford University Press.', 'That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.', 'P.S.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jeremy Corbyn, Egypt, Iran: Your Tuesday Briefing
['Let us help you start your day.', 'Good morning.', 'The leader of Britain’s Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, said he would support a second referendum on Brexit.', 'The amendment is unlikely to be approved in Parliament anytime soon, but it will cheer those in the country who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum.', 'On Wednesday, Parliament is expected to vote to eliminate the chaotic option of leaving the E.U. without a transition plan in place. That would leave Prime Minister Theresa May, who met with European leaders in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on Monday, with few options to complete Brexit by the March 29 deadline.', 'President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, center, at the E.U.-Arab League summit meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on Monday.', 'A summit meeting between European and Arab leaders was never going to be easy.', 'And indeed, it wasn’t.', 'Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Iranian foreign minister, announced his resignation on Instagram.', 'It was not immediately clear why he was quitting or whether his resignation would be accepted.', 'Mr. Zarif was the only top Iranian official with a deep understanding of Western diplomacy and the ability to interact directly with the West. His public resignation, in a country where governance is usually conducted behind closed doors, seemed to indicate escalating tensions between the country’s hard-liners and President Hassan Rouhani.', 'Iran is in the midst of a dire economic crisis, worsened by American sanctions, which has increased pressure on Mr. Rouhani. The U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal made Mr. Zarif vulnerable to attacks from hard-liners who never supported it.', "There's a mystery afoot in astrophysics.", 'Have dark forces been messing with the universe?', 'The universe seems to be expanding far more rapidly than it should be. Astrophysicists have struggled to account for the discrepancy.', 'They’ve been coming up with new ideas, which, if borne out, could mean rewriting the story of the origin of the cosmos, and its ultimate fate.', 'New precision in measuring the Hubble constant — the acceleration of galaxies away from one another in the expanding universe — suggests that the expansion is about 9 percent faster than expected.', 'The Times was able to print at the time, but not distribute online.', 'An exaggerated story about “Nazi pensions” — paid by Germany to Belgians for Nazi collaboration — caused a stir, but many of its claims were false or misleading.', 'The truth of the matter is complicated.', 'Scientists are investigating why a humpback whale ended up near the mouth of the Amazon River in Brazil.', 'Tips for a more fulfilling life.', 'Loneliness is bad for your health.', 'Planning a beach vacation?', 'We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Susanne Fischer of New York suggested the Oxford comma, which was traditionally used at Oxford University Press.', 'Inyoung Kang, a home screen editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story.', 'Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.', 'Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Indian Jets Strike in Pakistan in Revenge for Kashmir Attack
['A photograph released by Pakistan on Tuesday showing damage to trees it said was caused by Indian military airstrikes.', 'NEW DELHI — Indian warplanes conducted airstrikes in Pakistan on Tuesday, Pakistani officials said, in an escalation of tensions between the nuclear-armed nations after a suicide bombing against Indian troops in the disputed Kashmir region this month.', 'It was the first time that Indian aircraft had crossed the Kashmir Line of Control to strike in decades. But it was unclear what, if anything, the attack jets hit on the Pakistani side, raising the possibility that India was making a calculated bet to assuage public anger but minimize the risk of a major Pakistani military response.', 'A spokesman for Pakistan’s armed forces, Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, on Tuesday posted on Twitter four images of a forested area pockmarked with small craters and debris, which he said was the site of Indian airstrikes.', 'Payload of hastily escaping Indian aircrafts fell in open.', 'The Indian Foreign Ministry confirmed in a news briefing that a strike had occurred but would give no further details. The Indian news media, quoting local military officials, said Indian Mirage 2000 fighter jets dropped bombs on a “terrorist camp” in Pakistan-controlled territory at 3:30 a.m. local time.', 'No casualties or damage were reported, General Ghafoor said. The planes dropped the bombs near Balakot, which is close to the disputed border of India and Pakistan.', 'Though India and Pakistan routinely shell each other across what is known as the Line of Control, this is the first time in years that either side has deployed warplanes to fly across it.', 'Western security officials have raised questions about the existence of a large-scale training camp, saying that Pakistan no longer runs such camps and that militant groups are spread out in small groups around the country.', 'Analysts and diplomats in New Delhi said the targets of the Indian airstrikes were unclear, as any terrorist groups operating along the border would have cleared out in recent days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India vowed retaliation over the Kashmir attack.', 'The Indian attack is likely to draw a response from Pakistan, analysts say.', 'The American government has typically been a broker between India and Pakistan, conducting shuttle diplomacy in similarly heated situations. But President Trump has taken a hard line on Pakistan while drawing closer to India since coming to office in 2017. Observers fear the situation may escalate further in the absence of a third nation tamping down tensions.', 'New development: After India’s strike on Pakistan, both sides leave room for de-escalation.', 'In the run-up to Indian elections this spring, and with Mr. Modi facing a fierce a re-election fight, voters have demanded that New Delhi respond to the Kashmir attack with force against Pakistan.', 'Jeffrey Gettleman contributed reporting from New Delhi, and Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


U.N. Court Tells Britain to End Control of Chagos Islands, Home to U.S. Air Base
['Diego Garcia, the largest island in the Chagos archipelago and the site of an American military base leased from Britain in the Indian Ocean.', 'PARIS — The United Nations’ highest court on Monday told Britain that it should end its control “as rapidly as possible” over a remote colonial outpost in the Indian Ocean, best known for housing a strategic American air base on the island of Diego Garcia.', 'The judges of the International Court of Justice in The Hague voted 13 to 1 that Britain acted unlawfully in 1965 by detaching the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius, at the time a British colony, in order to pave the way for military installations to be leased to the United States.', 'The court heard testimony that negotiations between the United States and Britain about building a base began in 1964, a year before the Chagos Islands, which include Diego Garcia, were detached from Mauritius and made a new colony, named the British Indian Ocean Territory.', 'Officials from Mauritius, now an independent nation, said they were elated that the country’s claims were being recognized.', 'Once construction started on the American air base on Diego Garcia, the largest of the handful of inhabitable islands, Britain evicted all the inhabitants not connected to the work. None of the estimated 1,800 islanders who were removed have been permitted to return.', 'The court’s president, Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf of Somalia, said a majority of judges found that Britain had violated the 1960 United Nations declaration prohibiting the breakup of colonies before independence. So the separation of the Chagos Islands from Mauritius to create a new colony was a “wrongful act,” which had not been based on a “free and genuine expression of the people concerned,” the court’s opinion said.', 'The text handed down serves only as an advisory opinion, not a binding ruling, and the court noted it had no role in deciding what steps were required to achieve an end to the British administration and to address the rights of the deported inhabitants.', 'The authors of the opinion included judges from a range of countries, including China and India. The single opposing vote was cast by Judge Joan E. Donoghue of the United States.', 'Britain’s Foreign Office, pointing out this was not a binding judgment, said it would look “carefully” at the details.', 'Because of the court’s opinion, Britain is likely to come under renewed pressure in the United Nations General Assembly, which historically has been in the forefront of decolonization issues.', 'The presence of the American base was not raised as a legal issue during the hearing, but experts said that any fundamental change in the status of the islands would likely require new negotiations of the lease, which was recently renewed for 20 years.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Cardinal George Pell of Australia Convicted of Sexually Abusing Boys in 1996
['Cardinal George Pell was convicted in December of sexually abusing children more than 20 years ago.', 'MELBOURNE, Australia — An Australian cardinal who was once an adviser to Pope Francis has been convicted of molesting choir boys more than 20 years ago, making him the highest-ranking Roman Catholic leader ever found guilty of sexual abuse.', 'The unanimous jury verdict against the cardinal, George Pell, 77, was delivered Tuesday in the County Court of Victoria, where a suppression order has prevented media outlets from sharing any information about the case that could be accessed in Australia.', 'Cardinal Pell’s case was especially significant because he occupied the highest levels of the church hierarchy. He had been tapped by Francis to reform the Vatican’s finances after leading the church’s response to sexual abuse allegations against priests in Australia.', 'While Catholic bishops have been convicted before in cover-ups of child sexual abuse, this is the first time that a bishop has been convicted of perpetrating such abuse, according to Ann Barrett Doyle, co-director of Bishopaccountability.org, a research and advocacy group. More than 60 bishops have been accused of sexually abusing minors, she said.', 'Cardinal Pell, who returned voluntarily from the Vatican in July of 2017, was charged with five offenses said to have occurred in December of 1996 during his time as the newly appointed Archbishop of Melbourne.', 'Four of the charges related to an incident in which Cardinal Pell was accused of sexually assaulting two 13-year-old altar boys and forcing his penis into the mouth of one of them after Sunday Mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, in the priest’s sacristy; the fifth charge related to a separate incident in which Cardinal Pell was accused of grabbing one of the boy’s genitals.', 'Mitchell Garabedian, a lawyer in Boston who has represented hundreds of sexual abuse victims, said Cardinal Pell’s case had opened the floodgates for abuse charges of other cardinals and officials at the highest levels of the Church.', 'The jury trial in Melbourne lasted just short of five weeks, ending with three days of jury deliberation.', 'It was a retrial of the case after an earlier trial ended with a hung jury.', 'Both proceedings were subject to the suppression order that barred publication in Australia of details on the charges, the verdict and any other element of the case, “to prevent a real and substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice,” according to the order.', 'The New York Times did not initially publish this article online, and it blocked delivery to Australia of any version in print or through syndication, to comply with the order.', 'Another trial on charges involving abuse allegations against Cardinal Pell from the 1970s is expected to start in March, and the gag order is intended in part to prevent a future jury from developing biases before deliberations in that case. The order is scheduled to be lifted after a verdict in that trial.', 'But since the verdict, the news has been published by several international news outlets. News organizations in Australia have been testing the boundaries of what is permissible while pressuring the court to lift the order.', 'Several other outlets published editorials on their front pages denouncing the news blackout in cryptic language that avoided direct references to Cardinal Pell or the verdict, prompting Chief Judge Peter Kidd to hold an impromptu hearing on Thursday, in which he called for prosecutors to initiate legal proceedings against journalists for contempt of court.', 'The maximum sentence for contempt, he said, is five years in prison.', 'Mr. Garabedian said the church benefits from court secrecy. “The suppression order plays into the secrecy, which the Catholic Church thrives on when it comes to the issue of clergy sexual abuse,” he said.', 'Other elements of the case have also been kept secret, in part because of privacy laws. Despite repeated requests to the court, news media outlets were refused access to the testimony from the former altar boy who is the case’s main complainant, live or in transcript.', 'He cannot be identified publicly under a provision in Australian law designed to protect victims of childhood sexual abuse.', 'During the trial, however, the prosecution’s main lawyer, Mark Gibson, read out parts of the complainant’s testimony. In that statement he described how Cardinal Pell shoved him to the floor and pushed his erect penis into his mouth.', 'The statement added that he did not speak out about the event for years for fear of losing his scholarship to St. Kevin’s College, a prestigious private Catholic school in Melbourne.', 'A second former altar boy was said by the first altar boy to have been molested by Pell. He died in 2014 in what the court described as “accidental” circumstances, widely known to have been a heroin overdose. He also cannot be identified.', 'Prosecutors methodically presented evidence from both complainants and built a case showing that Cardinal Pell — a physically imposing former athlete who carried nicknames like “Big George” and “the ambitious Australian bulldog” — had the opportunity and ability to commit grave acts of abuse in a relatively private section of the cathedral that he knew intimately.', 'His defense lawyers, led by one of Australia’s most prominent and well-paid barristers, Robert Richter, argued a man of such stature would never have been so reckless having risen that same year to become the archbishop of the Melbourne archdiocese.', 'Indeed, a few months before the episodes at the cathedral, which Cardinal Pell has denied, he unveiled what became known as the “Melbourne Response” to the sexual abuse problem that has plagued the church for generations.', 'His plan included a pamphlet with an apology and pledged modest payouts to victims of pedophile priests, capped at 50,000 Australian dollars ($36,000).', 'Cardinal Pell, who was then considered an efficient leader, forced more than a dozen priests who were accused of abuse to step down.', 'But victims of abuse also accused him of failing to adequately support their claims — the payouts were far smaller than those in other countries — and of overlooking abuse earlier in his career, when he was a priest in Ballarat, his hometown.', 'Mr. Richter repeatedly argued in court that none of this was relevant; it was not “a trial of the Catholic Church,” he said, according to people in court.', 'In the mistrial, which ended in September, several jurors could be seen weeping when they told the judge they could not reach a conclusion.', 'But on Tuesday, the jury seemed to harbor few doubts. As the foreman announced the verdict, the jury’s nine men and three women — including a mathematician, postal worker and secondary school teacher — sat straight-faced, revealing little emotion, with only a few glancing in the direction of Cardinal Pell, who gazed at the floor, his thinning gray hair swept sideways over his balding head.', 'Judge Kidd granted Cardinal Pell’s bail so that he could undergo a double knee reconstruction on Friday — after which, the judge said, he would issue a sentence.', 'Many of those who were in the court watching the proceedings said they were surprised by the outcome.', 'Julie Cameron, another supporter of the victims who diligently sat through both trials said she was overcome with emotion.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Danny Burch, U.S. Hostage in Yemen, Has Been Released, Trump Says
['The Yemeni city of Sana, where Danny Lavone Burch was abducted in 2017.', 'Mr. Trump did not specify how Mr. Burch, who is married to a Yemeni woman, was freed. It also was not clear who had abducted Mr. Burch, although former American officials said he was not being held by Al Qaeda.', 'Mr. Burch is an engineer at a Yemeni oil company and is married to a Yemeni woman.', 'Working closely with American forces, the United Arab Emirates has stationed ground troops in Yemen to fight Houthi rebels in the country’s ongoing civil war. American officials have previously told The New York Times that freeing Mr. Burch likely would have required a raid; a State Department spokesman on Monday said the United Arab Emirates was “crucial” to securing his release.', 'Two American officials discussed the details of the case on Monday on condition of anonymity.', 'Kidnappings of Americans and other Westerners are common in Yemen, a poor country that has been devastated by years of civil unrest. Houthi rebels and affiliates of Al Qaeda often attempt to ransom hostages for money or accuse them of being spies.', 'At the time of Mr. Burch’s abduction, no group claimed responsibility.', 'Mr. Burch began working on oil rigs in Yemen in the mid-1990s. He traveled between the United States and Yemen before moving there permanently, according to Stephen Burch, his son from his first marriage, in an interview shortly after he was taken in 2017.', 'Stephen Burch said then that his father had divorced his first wife and had virtually no contact with him or his other children from the first marriage.', 'Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


President Trump, Academy Awards, Labour Party: Your Monday Evening Briefing
['Good evening. Here’s the latest.', 'Mr. Trump said he expected a “very tremendous summit,” amid indications that the administration may be preparing to deliver something that Mr. Kim desperately wants: a joint political statement declaring a formal end to the Korean War.', 'Mr. Cohen is expected to address Mr. Trump’s finances, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters.', 'Over the weekend, President Trump halted plans to sharply escalate tariffs on Chinese imports on his March 1 deadline, saying that negotiators were making “substantial progress” and that President Xi Jinping of China would soon join him at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s Florida resort, for a “signing summit.” Above, a U.S. trade delegation meeting with Chinese counterparts last week.', 'And that is strange, because whole categories of investors have been selling: pension funds and mutual funds, as well as nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms, personal trusts and armchair investors.', 'So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves.', 'The sanctions came after efforts to get aid into the country foundered amid scattered deadly violence. Just one truck made it across the border.', 'Meeting in the Colombian capital, Bogotá, with the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, above left, Mr. Pence said that “the tragic events” had “only steeled” America’s resolve.', 'After the resignations of nine Labour Party members last week, and with more looming, the party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, above center, dropped his longstanding resistance to a second vote on leaving the bloc. But getting an amendment for a new vote through Parliament any time soon is unlikely.', 'The other option is to reach more for Sun Belt states, like Georgia, Florida and even Texas, that have shown flashes of blue.', 'The question goes to the heart of a conflict over the party’s ideology — whether Democrats will become more progressive or more centrist. Candidates who have joined the race so far appear to be trying to do both.', 'Scientists have been grappling with a discrepancy in their models of the universe. It appears to be expanding 9 percent faster than previously thought, changing the forecast for the ultimate fate of everything.', 'Cellphones are so present for many of us that they’re practically limbs — with deficits.', 'Studies have shown that people who don’t charge their phones in their bedrooms are significantly happier than those who do. “Phubbing,” or snubbing a person in favor of your phone, is hurtful.', 'Have a distraction-free evening.', 'Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.', 'And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing.', 'Want to catch up on past briefings?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Ireland Diagnosed Record Number of H.I.V. Infections in 2018, Health Data Suggests
['Members of the activist group Act Up outside the Irish Department of Health in Dublin in 2016.', 'Ireland diagnosed a record high number of new H.I.V. infections in 2018, new health data suggests, a trend that contrasts with a general decline in infections across Europe, and that some Irish activists attribute to poor sex health education and insufficient access to preventive drugs.', 'Preliminary figures released last month by the Health Protection Surveillance Center, a state watchdog, suggested that 531 new cases of H.I.V. infection had been diagnosed in Ireland last year, an increase from 492 the previous year. And though intravenous drug use was the main way H.I.V. spread through Ireland in the late 1980s and early 1990s, in recent years sex between gay and bisexual men has become the most common route for transmission, accounting for more than half of new cases.', 'Dr. Derval Igoe, a specialist in public health at the Irish government’s Health Services Executive, said that although the number of diagnosed H.I.V. infections in Ireland had recently increased after several years of stability, the rise did not necessarily indicate a widening epidemic.', 'Dr. Igoe said that a high proportion of the new cases involved migrants who had been infected before they came to the country, and people whose infection was detected through a local testing program introduced in 2016 that encourages people to discover their status early.', 'In recent years, government campaigns to reduce the harm from drugs, including the introduction of needle exchanges, methadone treatments and health education, have decreased the number of H.I.V. cases transmitted through drug use. In 2017, only 5 percent of the new H.I.V. diagnoses were found to have been transmitted via infected needles, while 53 percent were attributable to sex between men, according to health officials.', 'At the same time, the proportion of new cases via heterosexual transmission, once a small part of the total, has now risen to 33 percent. Dr. Igoe said many of these new cases involved migrants who were not aware of an infection and had come from countries with a much higher prevalence of heterosexual H.I.V. transmission, such as in sub-Saharan Africa.', 'These preventive drugs are now available as prescriptions in Ireland, at costs varying from 50 to 80 euros, or about $56 to $90, for a 30-day supply — prices that are down, Mr. Leavitt said, from several hundred euros a month for the patent brand, Truvada. In several other Western European countries, the drugs are available cheaply or at no charge from public health services.', 'He said that while some of the increase in sexual transmission in recent years could, in part, be ascribed to the new popularity of “hookup” apps and to unsafe drug use in conjunction with sex, the activist group is particularly concerned about what it regards as the poor sex education in Irish schools.', 'Dr. Igoe, the public health specialist, said the Irish authorities were aware of the potential benefits of more widespread use of PrEP drugs to block H.I.V. infection, and they are conducting a study to determine the costs and benefits of PrEP programs. She said that the government had committed to introducing one such program later this year, though how it would work in detail was still unknown.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s Foreign Minister, Says He Is Resigning
['Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, gesturing during a news conference in Tehran, the capital, this month.', 'ISTANBUL — Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif of Iran announced Monday that he was resigning, in what seemed a sudden end to the tenure of one of the Islamic Republic’s best-known figures abroad.', 'His resignation announcement also was reported by Iran’s Fars News Agency.', 'Mr. Zarif’s public resignation in a country where governance is usually conducted behind closed doors seemed to indicate escalating tensions between the country’s hard-liners and President Hassan Rouhani.', 'The loss of Mr. Zarif could make Mr. Rouhani’s job harder, because Mr. Zarif was the only top Iranian official with a deep understanding of Western diplomacy and the ability to interact directly with the West. He was a regular at international forums, where he offered spirited defenses of his country’s policies in fluent English.', 'Mr. Zarif’s role in dealing with the United States has left him vulnerable to attacks from hard-liners in Iran who contend the Americans should never be trusted.', 'In Iran, the resignation of the foreign minister must be accepted by the president before it goes into effect, which can sometimes lead to resignation announcements being made to send political messages. It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Rouhani would accept the resignation.', 'Political analysts who have followed the course of the nuclear agreement said Mr. Zarif’s resignation, if accepted, did not necessarily signal the agreement’s demise.', 'Mr. Zarif was unusual for an Iranian diplomat — a fluent, colloquial English speaker who knew American society, and so Western that during the negotiations over the nuclear deal, his hard-line adversaries in Tehran called him “Zarif the American.” This was not necessarily a distortion: He attended college in San Francisco and the University of Denver for graduate school, and kept his ties.', 'A high point of his time in office came as he was negotiating with Mr. Kerry over the intricacies of the nuclear deal. They often argued — one day the two could be heard shouting at each other through a closed door — but there was a connection between them that helped lead to an agreement.', 'But Mr. Zarif also was bitter about what he viewed as American double standards around the world, an assumption in Washington, he believed, that the United States only interfered in global affairs for good, not national interest, and that Iran did so out of perfidy.', 'Mr. Zarif appeared to be at the center of the Iranian strategy to adhere to the nuclear deal he had negotiated, even after President Trump had abandoned it.', 'And as time went on, and American sanctions were reimposed, he appeared to have a dwindling constituency in Tehran and none in Washington.', 'Iranians are angry over never having received the promised economic rewards for their concession in the agreement to ship out 97 percent of their nuclear fuel and restrict the production of new fuel for 15 years. Mr. Zarif’s many meetings with Europeans in recent months to develop a barter system, going around reimposed American sanctions, amounted to little.', 'The Trump administration refused to communicate with Mr. Zarif. Senior officials declared he was powerless and asked reporters why they quoted him. He was in the same room once with Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s first secretary of state, but the two never exchanged more than polite greetings. Mike Pompeo, Mr. Tillerson’s successor, never dealt with Mr. Zarif, American officials say.', 'Mr. Zarif’s resignation announcement came the same day as President Bashar al-Assad of Syria met with Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and other top officials during a surprise visit to Tehran.', 'Iran has played a critical role in supporting Mr. Assad and propping up his government since Syria’s civil war started in 2011. Along with providing funds to keep Mr. Assad afloat, Iran has provided supplies and militia fighters to back up his troops in battles against rebels seeking his ouster.', 'The visit was Mr. Assad’s first publicly disclosed trip to the Iranian capital since 2010, and photos released by Iranian and Syrian state news agencies showed him chatting not only with the ayatollah but other Iranian officials, including Qassim Suleimani, the commander of the elite Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. He also met with Mr. Rouhani.', 'Ben Hubbard reported from Istanbul, and David E. Sanger from Sydney, Australia. Nilo Tabrizy and Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Humpback Whale Washes Ashore in Amazon River, Baffling Scientists in Brazil
['A young humpback whale was found dead on Friday on an island near the mouth of the Amazon River in Brazil. Scientists are investigating how it died and why it was so far from where they migrate this time of the year.', 'Marine biologists in Brazil were stunned to discover a young humpback whale on Friday that had washed ashore on a remote, forested island in the Amazon River, at a time of the year when it should have already migrated thousands of miles to Antarctica.', 'Biologists examined the carcass over the weekend during low tide, looking for signs of how the whale might have died, and took samples for a necropsy, the group said. The whale, while about half the length of a full-grown humpback, was too large and in too remote an area to be entirely removed.', 'Ms. Emin told G1 that the group hypothesized that the young whale got detached from its mother before it died.', 'Humpbacks travel great distances every year, slowly migrating to and from the poles. Those in the Northern Hemisphere migrate this time of year to tropical waters before returning north in the summer. In the Southern Hemisphere, they migrate south during this time of year and return north during their winter, in the breeding season.', 'Ms. Emin said her group was examining the whale to try to determine its cause of death.', 'Ms. Emin did not respond to an email seeking comment.', 'Barbara Marcolini contributed reporting.', 'These Whales Are Serenaders of the Seas. It’s Quite a Racket.', 'New York’s Whales Love Bunker. So Do Fishing Boats. Conflict Ensues.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Mysterious Dead Whale Washes Up Near the Amazon
['U.S.']


North Korea, Brexit, Kashmir: Your Tuesday Briefing
['Let us help you start your day.', 'Good morning.', 'U.S., Vietnamese and North Korean national flags on display in Hanoi, Vietnam, ahead of the Trump-Kim meeting.', 'In the late 1950s, Tokyo worked to repatriate Koreans who had moved or were forcibly taken to Japan to work during World War II.', 'North Korea’s economy was then larger than the South’s and its promises of socialist programs were attractive. Nearly 95,000 Koreans migrated to the North — among them, the mother of the current North Korean leader.', 'The leader of Britain’s Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, said he would support a second referendum on Brexit.', 'The amendment is unlikely to be approved in Parliament any time soon, but it will cheer those in the country who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum.', 'On Wednesday, Parliament is expected to vote to eliminate the chaotic option of leaving the E.U. without a transition plan in place. That would leave Prime Minister Theresa May, who met with European leaders in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on Monday, with few options to complete Brexit by the March 29 deadline.', 'An exhibition at the National Museum of China in Beijing dedicated to President Xi Jinping.', 'Whether dealing with foreign policy, trade, unemployment and even disillusionment among China’s youth, Mr. Xi called on officials to keep trouble from spiraling into real threats. He demanded stricter controls on the internet and warned officials to beware of “black swans” and “gray rhinos” — meaning surprise economic shocks and financial risks hiding in plain sight.', 'The warnings underscore how slowing growth in China and the country’s trade war with the U.S. are starting to affect the party’s authority. Mr. Xi is in no mood to take any risks, while U.S. trade negotiators have pushed Beijing to decrease state control of the economy.', 'Local residents flee the border area in the disputed Kashmir region, which both India and Pakistan claim.', 'India and Pakistan edge closer to the brink over Kashmir. Again.', 'In the past few days, India has moved thousands of new troops into the Kashmir Valley. Families are fleeing the border area. A government directive ordered hospitals to “gear up their Rapid Response Teams.” Food and fuel supplies are running out. And both countries have fired artillery shells.', 'An all-out conflict seems unlikely, some experts say. Though the two countries have gone to war over Kashmir several times since partition in 1947, neither side wants a dramatic escalation now.', 'But the risks are compounded by a coming election in India in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party is using the episode to fan the flames of Hindu nationalism.', 'In the past decade, officials in Western Australia have sent thousands of people to jail for petty crimes — unpaid fines from minor offenses, loitering or failure to register a dog.', 'The Hindu faith’s ascetic monks at this year’s Kumbh Mela in northeastern India.', 'Tips for a more fulfilling life.', 'Loneliness is bad for your health.', 'Planning a beach vacation?', 'We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Susanne Fischer of New York City suggested the Oxford comma, which was traditionally used at Oxford University Press.', 'Inyoung Kang, a home screen editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story.', 'Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.', 'Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jeremy Corbyn, Under Pressure From His Labour Party, Backs New Brexit Vote
['The Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, on Monday.', 'LONDON — Britain’s opposition Labour Party said on Monday that it was prepared to support a second referendum on withdrawal from the European Union, a shift that could have significant ramifications for the fate of Brexit and for the country’s future.', 'After the resignations of nine Labour Party members last week, and amid the prospect of more, the party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, dropped his longstanding resistance to a second vote on leaving the bloc.', 'Mr. Corbyn’s support for a new vote is certainly no guarantee a new vote will happen. Still, it will cheer pro-European Britons, who have been fighting to reverse the outcome of the 2016 referendum decision.', 'The Labour statement on Monday was lacking in detail, and it was not immediately clear when the amendment for a second vote would be put forward in Parliament and what question, exactly, it proposed to put to the people.', 'Britain is scheduled to leave the European Union on March 29, but so far there is no agreement among lawmakers on how to proceed. An exit deal negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May was rejected by an overwhelming 230-vote margin last month.', 'If there is no agreement, the country risks a possibly chaotic “no-deal exit” from the bloc, without any negotiated agreement.', 'Analysts raised doubts about whether a Labour amendment calling for a second vote would come this week, when Parliament is scheduled to vote on a series of amendments proposed by lawmakers. They suggested it was more likely that Labour would make its move next month, when Mrs. May’s Brexit proposed deal is scheduled to be reconsidered.', 'At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea. But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.', 'Mr. Corbyn could choose to support two Labour lawmakers, Peter Kyle and Phil Wilson, who are drawing up an amendment that would support Mrs. May’s deal — but only in return for a referendum on it, with voters given the alternative of backing the May deal or remaining in the bloc.', 'While Labour lawmakers have long opposed a no-deal Brexit, they have been divided on whether to put the stay/leave question back to the people.', 'The party campaigned in the 2016 referendum against Brexit, but many of Labour’s traditional supporters in the north and middle of the country ignored its advice. That has left lawmakers representing those areas in a quandary, with some insisting that Brexit must go ahead to respect the views of their voters.', 'The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.', 'But most Labour members and voters in London and other big cities adamantly oppose Brexit.', 'One of the reasons cited by the Labour rebels, eight of whom quit last week to join an independent grouping, was Mr. Corbyn’s failure to oppose Brexit strongly enough. Without his support, there was no chance of a second referendum ever being authorized by lawmakers.', 'Monday’s announcement suggests that their departure has already proved effective in pressuring Mr. Corbyn, who is a lifelong critic of the European Union, to fall into line with those in the party who support a so-called people’s vote.', 'At last year’s Labour Party conference, members agreed that the party’s main priority would be to push for a general election, but if it failed to secure one, all options would remain under consideration, including a people’s vote.', 'Labour failed to bring down the government through a confidence motion last month but has been slow to move toward a second referendum. Mr. Corbyn has been accused of keeping in the background on Brexit, preferring to criticize and oppose Mrs. May’s Brexit plan, rather than stopping it, as long as he can avoid blame for its consequences.', 'On Monday David Lammy, a lawmaker who favors another referendum, welcomed Mr. Corbyn’s statement backing a second vote.', 'One analyst said Mr. Corbyn’s shift on the issue was more about internal Labour Party politics than securing a second vote.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Pensions for Nazi Collaborators? Shocking if True (It’s a Big If)
['BRUSSELS — It certainly sounded scandalous: Germany was paying pensions to Belgians for collaborating with the Nazi occupation during World War II. Politicians and news organizations expressed their outrage noisily.', 'It became clear eventually that aspects of the stories about “Nazi pensions” were exaggerated, misleading or just plain false — but not before there had been days of provocative headlines and outcry across Europe, particularly in Belgium. There was even action last week in the Belgian Parliament, whose foreign affairs committee passed a resolution urging the government to seek more information from Berlin and to conduct a binational investigation.', 'The people behind the resolution say they still believe that war criminals have collected payments from the German government since the war, and historians say they might be right. But just who has received them remains a secret under German law, though the number who are still alive, nearly 74 years after the war’s end, is small.', 'According to the German government, just 18 recipients live in Belgium — and they might not all be Belgian.', 'Berlin has struggled to set the record straight without seeming to be defensive or, worse yet, to deny German culpability.', 'Since the 1940s, those wounded while serving in the German military during the war have received payments as compensation — not, technically, a pension. From the beginning, some of those people have been citizens of countries other than Germany, including nations the Germans occupied, but the payment program does not discriminate by nationality.', 'Those claims, written more than two years ago, suddenly received intense attention this month, and led to incorrect allegations that the payments were specifically for veterans of the SS, a force closely tied to the Nazi Party that committed a disproportionate share of German war crimes.', 'The German government says that there are no SS veterans among the recipients in Belgium — the claim’s authors have not cited any evidence — and that there are no known war criminals among those getting the payments.', 'The German government said that such reviews had been carried out in the 1990s and that payments were found to have been directed to some war criminals, 99 of which were then stopped. In total, 2,033 people living outside of Germany are still receiving the payments, the government said.', 'He cited a postwar trial in which some Belgians who served as concentration camp guards participated in a massacre of prisoners in what is now Kaliningrad, Russia, on the Baltic Sea. “They were just convicted of military collaboration,” he said, not war crimes or crimes against humanity, because the Belgian judicial apparatus was not equipped to handle such cases immediately after the war.', 'The payments in question are not subject to taxation in Germany or in Belgium, so Berlin is prohibited from naming the recipients, German officials said.', 'The introduction to the resolution also claims that the German Embassy in Brussels has the names of recipients in Belgium but has refused to disclose them. But Mr. Kotthaus said that the embassy did not know the names — only that there were 18 of them.', 'Some of them could be German nationals who moved to Belgium. And if they are Belgian, it is possible that some were forced into German military service, as hundreds of thousands of people from occupied countries were.', 'The introductory text to the resolution, which contains the unsubstantiated claims, was first introduced in December 2016 by Olivier Maingain, the president of DéFI, a political party that represents the interests of French speakers in and around Brussels.', 'The parliamentary resolution, which was passed unanimously by the foreign affairs committee on Feb. 19, was co-written by Alvin De Coninck, an amateur historian, and Groupe Mémoires, an organization that promotes the commemoration of the Holocaust.', 'Mr. De Coninck’s mother was the sole member of her family who was not killed in the Holocaust. After a career as a taxi driver, Mr. De Coninck, 74, earned a bachelor’s degree in history and began independently researching collaboration in Belgium.', 'In a telephone interview, he said that he was concerned that Belgian war criminals had received or were still receiving payments from Germany, though he conceded that some of his claims required more research.', 'Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Pence, in Colombia to Meet Guaidó, Announces New Venezuela Sanctions
['Vice President Mike Pence announced sanctions on additional Venezuelan officials during a trip to Bogotá, Colombia, on Monday to meet with Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader who declared himself Venezuela’s interim president last month.', 'BOGOTÁ, Colombia — Vice President Mike Pence announced additional sanctions on Venezuelan officials Monday, urged Latin American neighbors to freeze assets of the state oil company and held his first face-to-face meeting with Venezuela’s opposition leader.', 'Visiting Colombia, Mr. Pence also warned some countries in the region that have conspicuously sought to remain neutral in the crisis convulsing Venezuela that they cannot remain so, singling out Mexico and Uruguay.', 'Only a smattering of aid got through, and it did little if anything to loosen Mr. Maduro’s control in Venezuela, a once prosperous nation that is now reeling from hyperinflation and poverty.', 'Mr. Guaidó violated a travel ban imposed by Mr. Maduro’s government to help direct the aid effort from Colombia, and in some ways staked his credibility on a successful outcome. When or even whether he will be able to return to Venezuela is unclear.', 'The Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, and Vice President Mike Pence in Bogotá, Colombia, on Monday.', 'Mr. Maduro has called Mr. Guaidó a coup plotter and a Trump administration lackey, and has described the humanitarian aid effort as a pretext for an American invasion directed from Colombia. He broke relations with Colombia on Saturday in retaliation.', 'As Mr. Guaidó met with Mr. Pence in person for the first time, Mr. Pence said that the weekend confrontations had only “steeled the resolve of the United States” to become more involved with increased sanctions as well as larger amounts of aid.', 'The new sanctions, targeting assets of four Venezuelan governors allied with Mr. Maduro, come atop crippling American sanctions issued late last month against the state oil company, known as PDVSA, a crucial source of revenue for the Maduro government.', 'On Monday, Mr. Pence also announced an additional $56 million in aid to the Venezuelan opposition, and he urged Latin American nations to transfer the control of assets from Mr. Maduro to Mr. Guaidó.', 'While the new round of sanctions amounted to a relatively modest increase, Mr. Pence warned that more punishing measures loom from the Treasury Department in coming days.', 'Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza of Venezuela at the United Nations in New York, last week.', 'With Mr. Guaidó’s call for mass defections by the Venezuelan military largely unheeded, some opposition figures have begun talking of outside military intervention as a possible next step.', 'In remarks to Mr. Pence and an assembled group of regional officials on Monday, Mr. Guaidó said that he remained resolute in the face of a setback and called on allies to create a “more powerful and effective” stranglehold on Mr. Maduro’s government.', 'In recent days, Mr. Pence and several other senior administration officials, including John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, issued multiple calls for Mr. Maduro to allow in food and medicine and threatened action if he did not relent.', 'American officials have cheered reports of Venezuelan troop defections and castigated Mr. Maduro’s forces as hoodlums and thugs.', 'How many troops have defected remains unclear.', 'Iván Duque, the Colombian president, said Monday that 440 had crossed into Colombia. Venezuela’s foreign minister, Mr. Arreaza, said such figures are vastly inflated.', 'The aftermath of a clash Sunday between opposition protesters and government forces in Ureña, Venezuela, near the border with Colombia.', 'The Trump administration has taken a particularly hawkish stance on Venezuela, which Mr. Trump has in recent weeks framed as an ideological adversary of the United States and a promoter of a brand of socialism that must be defeated.', 'The president has steadily ramped up his rhetoric.', 'Last fall, Mr. Trump praised Venezuelans, who have been leaving their country in large numbers because of the political turmoil and dire economic situation, as “great, great people,” some of whom he said he had gotten to know during visits to his golf club in South Florida.', 'He was more forceful in a speech to the Venezuelan community in Florida last week, when he declared that the “twilight hour” of socialism would soon be over.', 'The situation in Venezuela has also become a matter of partisan debate inside the United States.', 'Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, has been a vocal supporter of the effort to oust Mr. Maduro, and he drew criticism on Sunday when he appeared to compare the Venezuelan president to Muammar el-Qaddafi, the deposed Libyan ruler who was dragged through the streets and killed during a violent Arab Spring uprising.', 'On Monday, Mr. Pence sought instead to make an emotional case for humanitarian aid as he and Mr. Guaidó met with dozens of Venezuelans who were living in exile. As cameras rolled, the vice president approached and embraced a tearful man who had been speaking in Spanish.', 'Nicholas Casey contributed reporting from Bogotá, and Rick Gladstone from New York.', 'With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


A Dish That Captures the Greatness of British Cooking
['Meatballs step in for pork sausage in this take on toad-in-the-hole.', 'The dish was first referred to quite literally, as “meat boiled in a crust,” or described as “batter-pudding with a hole in the middle containing meat.” Later on, sausage became the commonplace meat and a more figurative name was given; with that, toad-in-the-hole, along with spotted dick and bubble and squeak, became one of Britain’s most popular (and peculiarly named) dishes.', 'Only that hearsay tends to stick, though, much like the idea that British food is inherently bland, stodgy and lacking in imagination. Alas, this perception is how so many outsiders came to get a kick out of thumping British food for a very long time and, to an extent, still do.', 'I can’t pretend that I didn’t share this attitude once upon a time. When I arrived on this island more than two decades ago, I was primed to be thoroughly unimpressed. It didn’t take long, though, for me to be proven gloriously wrong.', 'The setting was a Sunday roast, served in the first restaurant that offered me a permanent job. The stars, alongside the meat, were the aforementioned gravy, which was rich, smooth and gloriously silky, and Yorkshire pudding, a meatless version of the toad-in-the-hole, consisting only of the light, crusty batter. Placing me in charge of making Yorkies was a dangerous move. They were so good that a nice proportion ended up feeding me instead of loyal customers.', 'Humble ingredients are central to this dish.', 'This blessed trinity is an excellent way to gather the masses, much like the Sunday roast itself. The only deviation from tradition I allow myself here is the substitution of sausages with pork meatballs, which I prefer for their looser texture. Nevertheless, the dish remains as unassuming as the original.', 'The simplicity of the ingredients and technique in toad-in-the-hole also says a lot about British culture in general. It is humble food, made with purpose and perfectly executed, with a tongue-in-cheek name to bring it all together.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


News Analysis: Troops on the Move as India and Pakistan Face Off Over Kashmir
['Locals fleeing their villages near the Line of Control, the de facto border between Pakistani- and Indian-administered Kashmir, in Chakothi, Pakistan, on Saturday.', 'NEW DELHI — The Kashmir Valley, a disputed territory that has led to war between India and Pakistan in the past, is once again bringing the two archrivals to the brink.', 'In the past few days, hundreds of Kashmiris have been arrested, accused of fueling the insurgency against Indian rule. India has moved thousands of new troops into the valley, where they have taken up positions in towns, along the highways and in snow-dusted apple orchards.', 'Families are fleeing border areas. Fuel and food supplies are running out. Pakistan and India are firing artillery shells. An Indian government directive ordered doctors to “gear up their Rapid Response Teams” for “any untoward eventuality.” In Pakistan, the military has shifted to high alert.', 'What are the chances of war?', 'Still thankfully low, most analysts say, because neither country really wants it. But both India and Pakistan are nuclear armed, and any escalation between them sends jitters around the world.', 'The site near Pulwama where a Kashmiri suicide bomber rammed a car packed with explosives into a convoy of Indian troops earlier this month, killing at least 40 paramilitary police officers.', 'India, which has 1.3 billion people to Pakistan’s 200 million, has blamed Pakistan for the attack, one of the deadliest in Kashmir in decades. Tensions between the two countries are now reaching a level that analysts say is the most dangerous in years.', 'Western nations, including the United States, have urged the two sides to back away from conflict.', 'But the rivalry between India and Pakistan is so bitter and deep that such incidents quickly take on a volatile energy of their own that may be difficult to contain. The risk is compounded by election-year maneuvering in India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party is appealing to Hindu nationalism and urgently trying to avoid appearing weak.', 'A funeral in Prayagraj, India, on Feb. 16 for one of the soldiers killed in the suicide bombing.', 'Pakistan seems to be getting the message. Diplomatically, the momentum is behind India. The United Nations passed a resolution sympathetic to India, and Imran Khan, Pakistan’s relatively new prime minister, has begun to soften his stance.', 'Jaish-e-Mohammed, the militant group that claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing, has operated in Pakistan for years, and Western security officials say that Pakistani organizations continue to supply money and expertise to militants inside the Indian-controlled areas of Kashmir.', 'The suicide bomber was a young Kashmiri man who had spent his life inside those areas, bitter about India’s often heavy-handed displays of force. But he probably received some help.', 'Two Western security officials, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence analyses, said that an experienced bomb maker from Pakistan most likely traveled across the border and built an unusually powerful bomb for the young Kashmiri to detonate.', 'Protests the day after the militant attack.', 'Pakistan has denied involvement. But the country’s powerful military and intelligence services, often referred to simply as “the establishment,” have a long history of supporting Kashmiri militant groups — and others, like the Afghan Taliban — as proxies.', 'Many Indians point to the Mumbai attacks in 2008, in which militants who were widely linked to Pakistan killed more than 150 people. Few Indians are pushing for a full-scale war, but they are also tired of the violence.', 'Adding to the unpredictability is Pakistan’s shakiness as a state, and the fact that its secretive security services appear to have lost control of some of the same militant groups they once nurtured. Pakistan also fields a large army, with thousands of troops at the border, backed by medium-range ballistic missiles that carry nuclear warheads, just like India’s.', 'Caught in the middle are 12 million people living in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, which includes the Kashmir Valley, a gorgeous, fertile landscape nestled in the Himalayas.', 'Pakistani soldiers watching over potential Indian troop movements on Saturday at the Chakothi post, near the Pakistan-India border.', 'That agreement came with many caveats, and the Indian government at the time promised Kashmir special status and substantial autonomy.', 'Over the years, much of that autonomy has been stripped away. Pakistan, meanwhile, has never recognized India’s claims on Kashmir, and many Pakistanis believe that Kashmir should be part of their country because it is majority Muslim, like Pakistan. Pakistani officials have long called on the United Nations to support a referendum that would allow Kashmiri residents to choose for themselves.', 'This week, India’s Supreme Court is scheduled to hold a hearing on part of the law that gives Kashmir special status. Some of Mr. Modi’s political allies have been eager to take away the last of the special measures, such as rules that prohibit outsiders from owning land in Jammu and Kashmir, and a case has been brewing in court.', 'Many analysts said that if the Supreme Court diluted these special measures, Kashmir would explode in protests and the Indian government would respond with a deadly crackdown. The Indian troop movements in the past few days may be in preparation for such an uprising.', 'Many Kashmiris are now hunkered down in their homes, afraid to step outside. People also fear for their safety along the so-called Line of Control between India and Pakistan, where there are frequent exchanges of artillery and gunfire.', 'On Sunday, Karim-ud-Din Khan, an older herder, abandoned his home near the border after Indian and Pakistani troops began pounding each other’s posts. An artillery shell exploded in his courtyard and Mr. Khan ordered his family of six to pack up.', 'The reason he left was simple: “It looked like a war might break out soon,” he said.', 'Reporting was contributed by Hari Kumar and Suhasini Raj from New Delhi; Sameer Yasir from Srinagar, Kashmir; and Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Dozens Dead in Nigeria as Election Results Are Delayed
['Counting votes at a polling station in Port Harcourt, southern Nigeria, on Saturday.', 'ABUJA, Nigeria — Election Day violence killed at least 39 people across Nigeria, civil society groups reported, and with ballot-counting temporarily halted and rumors flying, Nigerians were left waiting on Monday for an announcement of the winner in the presidential contest.', 'The 18-hour gap until tabulation began again late Monday morning left time for more rumors to spread about whether the delay was helping the leading candidates rig the results. At one point, members of the party of the leading challenger, Atiku Abubakar, declared victory, a notion that was far from certain.', 'Much of the violence on Saturday played out in the south of the country, in opposition strongholds where the tight election is particularly contested, according to Cheta Nwanze, head of research at SBM Intelligence, a nonpartisan group that has been critical of the government and is tracking violence based on reports from local police and media.', 'Delays have been a reigning theme of Nigeria’s presidential election, which had been scheduled to take place a week earlier. To the frustration of many voters, the national electoral commission, citing logistical issues, postponed the vote in the middle of the night, just hours before polling places were to open.', 'Both Mr. Buhari, 76, and Mr. Abubakar, 72, a businessman and former vice president, spun theories about the delay, each claiming that the commission was stalling to gain an advantage for the other camp. As early results trickled in Monday afternoon, favoring the incumbent, the fiery head of Mr. Abubakar’s political party accused Mr. Buhari’s party of tampering with results and colluding with elections officials.', 'When the vote finally took place on Saturday, most polling stations did not open until four hours after the official starting time, civil society groups reported. Some opened so late that they had to reopen on Sunday to give voters the six hours allotted to cast ballots — one reason cited by election officials for delaying the tabulation.', 'It became apparent on Sunday and Monday that violence on Election Day had been worse than originally reported.', 'One election worker was killed by a stray bullet in Rivers State, a restive region where six civilians and one soldier also died in a shootout, in a separate incident, according to civil society groups. In the same state, some election workers and police officers were taken hostage, but released unharmed, the groups said.', 'Damage caused by clashes between supporters of the governing party and followers of an opposition group, in Bebeji, in northern Nigeria, on Friday.', 'In Lagos, one of Africa’s most populous cities, violence broke out at polling places, with shots fired in the air and ballot boxes set on fire, the groups said, adding that some voters rioted when election materials did not arrive on time.', 'At a news conference Monday morning, Mr. Nwankwo was critical of Mr. Buhari’s statements that anyone caught trying to rig the vote would be killed, suggesting the message incited violence.', 'Mr. Nwankwo also criticized the deployment of the military to provide security for elections, calling the act “totally, totally unacceptable.” He noted that soldiers had been involved in the shootout in Rivers State and had blocked voters from reaching the polls in some areas.', 'He urged Britain and the United States to impose sanctions on any political figures whose actions led to deaths.', 'In a room down the hall from where Mr. Nwankwo presented his findings to the public, the African Union minutes later offered a glossier view of the elections, citing a small number of irregularities.', 'International election observers also noted that as bad as the violence was this year, prior elections have been worse. One local observer mission reported that the irregularities and issues with the election had occurred in what was a small percentage of the thousands of polling stations, which were set up to handle more than 70 million voters in Africa’s most populous nation.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Venezuela Crisis: Hope and Aid Blocked at Border
['U.S.']


Kim Jong-un Arrives in Vietnam, for a Visit About More Than Trump
['Workers raise Vietnamese, North Korean and American flags along a road in Hanoi on Sunday in preparation for a summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.', 'Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, arrived in Vietnam early Tuesday, as he prepared to meet with President Trump to discuss a range of thorny diplomatic issues, including the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.', 'However the summit meeting turns out, Mr. Kim’s trip to Vietnam will be symbolic in other ways. That is partly because Vietnam and North Korea have a long friendship that includes cooperation during the Vietnam War, as well as complex relationships with China, their mutual neighbor.', 'Mr. Kim arrived by armored train at the China-Vietnam border around 8:20 a.m. Hanoi time, and got into a motorcade heading south toward the capital. Here’s a rundown of where Mr. Kim may go in Vietnam, and the political and historical symbolism that would lie just below the surface.', 'That war came during a strained period in Vietnamese-North Korean relations.', 'Pyongyang recognized Vietnam’s nascent Communist regime in 1950, four years before the country gained independence from France. It would later join China in providing material and personnel to North Vietnam for its war against the United States.', 'Relations between Vietnam and China, meanwhile, were not restored until 1991.', 'A row of headstones at a memorial for fallen North Korean pilots in Bac Giang Province, Vietnam.', 'From the border, Mr. Kim is expected to travel through several northern Vietnamese provinces. One would be Bac Giang, where hundreds of North Korean Air Force personnel were deployed during the Vietnam War — a symbol of trust and cooperation between the two countries.', 'Like Russian military officers who were sent to support Communist forces against the American-backed South Vietnamese regime, North Korean pilots wore Vietnamese uniforms and used their hosts’ aircraft, facilities and equipment. Their remains were repatriated from Vietnam to North Korea in 2002, but their graves still stand in a Bac Giang rice paddy.', 'The factory is a potent symbol of how foreign investment has helped transform Vietnam’s economy since the late 1980s, when the ruling Communist Party — unlike North Korea’s leadership — embarked on a campaign of so-called Open Door economic reforms.', 'The Government Guest House in Hanoi is one of two downtown venues where Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim may meet.', 'In Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, Mr. Kim is expected to meet with Mr. Trump on Wednesday and Thursday at one of two downtown venues.', 'One is the Government Guest House, the former residence of the colonial governor of Tonkin, the name for northern Vietnam during the French colonial period. The building became the headquarters of a transitional government led by the Communist revolutionary Ho Chi Minh, who declared Vietnam’s independence from France in 1945.', 'The rest of Mr. Kim’s Hanoi itinerary is still shrouded in secrecy. But one logical stop would be the Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum, a few blocks from the North Korean Embassy.', 'Visiting caves in Halong Bay. Mr. Kim’s grandfather, Kim Il-sung, visited the popular tourist destination in 1964.', 'Down by the bay?', 'If Mr. Kim also makes the journey to Halong Bay, he would follow in the footsteps of his grandfather, who traveled there in 1964. The younger Kim, who has reportedly taken a great interest in North Korea’s tourism industry, may see Halong Bay as a useful model for how to develop a big-name tourist attraction.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


China, North Korea, Oscars: Your Monday Briefing
['The president said negotiators had forged a compromise on key issues, although the White House did not release any details.', 'Mr. Trump said he hoped to sign a final deal with China’s president, Xi Jinping, most likely in March at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s Florida resort. No new deadline was set.', 'The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, is en route to Hanoi, Vietnam, where he is scheduled to meet with President Trump on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss the North’s nuclear weapons program.', 'The discussions in Hanoi will be a test for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is seeking to extract a timetable for dismantling Mr. Kim’s nuclear program while reconciling how the U.S. and the North define denuclearization.', 'Alex McIntyre, second from right, is among employees at a chain of British pubs who are fighting for better working conditions and fairer pay.', 'Britons who came of age after the 2008 global financial crisis will, in many cases, be worse off than their parents. Thirty-year-olds are only half as likely to own homes as baby boomers were at the same age, and a third are expected to rent for their whole lives.', 'The Times has been reporting for the past year on how austerity has reshaped British society.', 'Can America still build big?', 'The recent decision by California’s governor to scale back the state’s high-speed rail network has prompted deeper questions about the country’s ability to think big and work together on complex public works projects.', 'But he did not offer any concrete policies.', 'This video clip on Instagram.', 'David Malosh for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon Andrews.', 'Are you addicted to your smartphone?', 'Left: Sidney Poitier and the Apollo Theater in Midtown Manhattan. Right: The Apollo Theater in Harlem.', 'But there was also an Apollo Theater on 42nd Street.', 'That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.', 'P.S.', 'An earlier version of this briefing misspelled the surname of the actress who won the Academy Award for best actress on Sunday. She is Olivia Colman, not Coleman.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


India Dispatch: At the World’s Largest Religious Gathering, Nirvana and ‘Glamping’
['Hindu ascetics bathing in the Ganges River near Prayagraj, India, as part of the Kumbh Mela, the world’s largest religious gathering.', 'This year’s Kumbh Mela, a Hindu pilgrimage, was the biggest and most expensive ever. But some holy men said the difference from prior years was not a positive one. “I give it a zero,” said one.', 'Hindu ascetics bathing in the Ganges River near Prayagraj, India, as part of the Kumbh Mela, the world’s largest religious gathering.', 'PRAYAGRAJ, India — The holy man had seen a lot in his day. It was evident in his long, white beard and naked, skeletal frame.', 'The ascetic, Naga Baba Prayagrajgiri, had twice before joined the throngs of Hindu worshipers who flock to Prayagraj every six years to pray and bathe at the confluence of India’s great rivers — two of them worldly, the third divine.', 'Over the years, he has seen the pilgrimage, known as the Kumbh Mela, swell from tens of millions of people to hundreds of millions — the largest religious gathering in the world.', 'But this year’s festival — the biggest and most expensive ever — was different, Mr. Prayagrajgiri said.', 'Pilgrims having their heads shaved after a ritual bath.', 'The Sangam bathing site, at the confluence of the Ganges and Yamuna rivers.', 'This year, 150 million people were expected to attend the Kumbh Mela between January and March.', 'For centuries the faithful have come here to wash away their sins at the spot where the Ganges and Yamuna rivers converge with the invisible and mythic tributary known as the Sarasvati.', 'This year, 150 million people were expected to attend the Kumbh Mela between January and March.', 'Traditionally, ascetics like Mr. Prayagrajgiri, known as sadhus, were the primary attraction at the festival, setting up tents to greet the faithful.', 'There, the holy men, many of whom have renounced all material possessions including clothing, sat around fires, lectured on the Hindu faith, beckoned passers-by for blessings in exchange for alms and provided their tents to lodgers.', 'Mr. Prayagrajgiri would not reveal his age. And he cautioned that asking a sadhu his age would result in surrendering one’s remaining years to the holy man.', 'A transgender woman peeking from a tent in Kumbh Nagari, a makeshift city built to accommodate the faithful.', 'Kumbh Nagari, the temporary city constructed on the banks of the Ganges River.', 'A sanitation worker cleaning one of the 120,000 toilets. The government invested millions into this year’s festival — the largest ever.', 'But Mr. Prayagrajgiri’s tent was empty, as were many others in the Juna Akhara, one of 13 sadhu camps hosting ascetics at the festival.', 'If faith drove pilgrims into the sadhus’ tents in the past, it was politics this year that kept them out.', 'As is customary, in a matter of months, a city was built from scratch on the dry, sandy banks of the rivers. The city is called Kumbh Nagari.', 'Guests at the Indraprastham Tent City, a luxury campsite.', 'Japanese visitors were among those outside of India to whom the government advertised the festival.', 'A holy man and a young girl at a carnival, one of the festival’s attractions.', 'This year’s Kumbh Nagari was more orderly than in past years, many attendees said. There were toilets. And transportation options. Round-the-clock access to electricity and water. Art exhibits and carnivals. Police officers who enforced regulations.', 'And at an event that has historically been short on places to sleep, there were also more accommodations — including lodgings more upscale than the ascetics’ smoke-filled tents.', 'The government also marketed the festival abroad in the hopes of attracting Indian expatriates and tourists, in addition to the middle-aged devotees who typically attend.', 'A significant number of new accommodations were built, including previously unavailable luxury “glamping” options, or glamorous camping. For some attendees, the accumulation of modern services has changed the tenor of the event.', 'Pilgrims shopping at roadside stalls.', 'A Hindu priest performing morning prayers.', 'Pilgrims at Prayagraj Junction station.', 'At one of the new riverside luxury camps, the Indraprastham Tent City, guests sipped on barista-crafted lattes outside of tents that cost as much as $500 per night to stay in. Three miles from the smoke and dust of Kumbh Nagari, the upscale tents offer a rare commodity at the festival — quiet.', 'On a nearby stretch of riverbank, a group of Indian expatriates, who live in Shanghai and were visiting with Chinese friends, splashed and practiced yoga in a private area solely for the use of the luxury camp’s guests.', 'Girja Shankar Pandey, 53, a merchant from Allahabad who sells clothes and textiles to the visiting pilgrims, said this year’s festivalgoers were younger and more family-oriented.', 'Pilgrims marching to the river early in the morning.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Koreans in Japan Embrace the North as the World Shuns It
['Jiro Oshima and his granddaughter Misa An looking through old photo albums of his trips to visit family in North Korea, at his home in Tokyo.', 'TOKYO — Every time Jiro Oshima wants to see his siblings, he must travel to North Korea.', 'Mr. Oshima, 79, a retired schoolteacher in Japan, takes a flight to Beijing, then another to Pyongyang, carrying small gifts like candy and underwear, and items that his siblings can sell: baby clothes, medicine, shoes.', 'He has made the journey more than a dozen times since the 1960s, when his parents and siblings moved to the Communist nation as part of a repatriation program that the world has largely forgotten.', 'Now, as President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, prepare for a second summit meeting, to be held in Vietnam this week, there is nervous anticipation that a political thaw could ease the North out of its long isolation. Perhaps nowhere is that hope stronger than among ethnic Koreans like Mr. Oshima in Japan — a community that embraced North Korea as the rest of the world cut it off.', 'An estimated 322,000 ethnic Koreans in Japan are members of families that arrived during Tokyo’s 35-year colonial occupation of Korea. Known as the Zainichi, most trace their roots to what is now South Korea.', 'Nevertheless, much of the population has long identified more closely with the North, which wooed them in the early years of the Cold War with propaganda and funding for community groups and schools.', 'Zainichi now live and work across Japan. Over the decades, the money they sent to relatives in North Korea helped keep the nation’s economy afloat, while spies targeted them to gather intelligence.', 'The Oshimas’ story is typical. Like thousands of other families, they were caught in a cul-de-sac of history, uprooted by the Second World War only to be split apart and stranded by the Cold War.', 'Photographs of Mr. Oshima visiting North Korea, right, and with his older brother as children in Japan, left.', 'Beginning in the late 1950s, Japan offered to help repatriate the Zainichi, many of whom were attracted to North Korea’s socialist promises and an economy then larger than the South’s. Nearly 100,000 people moved, including Mr. Oshima’s parents and siblings.', 'Mr. Oshima, 20 at the time, had intended to follow them, and was just waiting for word from his family.', 'To circumvent censors, they used code. If they wrote in vertical script, as is typical in Japanese, it meant Mr. Oshima should join them. But if the writing was horizontal, that would be a warning to stay away.', 'When the first letters arrived, the words marched across the page, left to right.', 'Mr. Oshima’s parents set sail from a village in southeastern Korea in 1934, searching for work as Japan’s war machine was warming up.', 'Discrimination was baked into the laws, which made it difficult for Zainichi to become citizens. Mr. Oshima hoped to study engineering but was barred from a specialized high school and ended up teaching at a Korean school.', 'Most of his first pupils were from families preparing to move to the North.', 'At the time, in the late 1950s, Japanese officials were quietly working with Pyongyang on a repatriation program.', 'An English-language class at Korea University in Tokyo, where the curriculum includes Korean history, culture, music and dance.', 'North Korea saw an opportunity to replenish its work force after the devastation of the Korean War. But the South, governed by a military dictatorship at the time, was worried that an influx of Zainichi might hurt its weak economy.', 'Articles appeared in Japanese newspapers portraying the wonders of the North, where the authorities promised furnished apartments, jobs, rice and three months’ of coal to those who returned.', 'The United States quietly raised concerns that some Zainichi might be pressured into moving. But it did not object to the program, Ms. Morris-Suzuki wrote, because it wanted to protect its relationship with Japan.', 'Among those who left Japan was a young girl who would one day become the mother of Kim Jong-un, the North’s current leader.', 'Mr. Oshima’s family departed in 1960, boarding a ship from the port of Niigata on Japan’s west coast. They were going home, free at last from Japanese rule.', 'He would never see his parents again.', 'Fifteen years passed before Mr. Oshima could travel to North Korea.', 'During that time, he taught in Korean schools run by Chosen Soren, the main Zainichi community organization, which received funding from North Korea in the early years and portrayed the nation’s founder, Kim Il-sung, as a heroic fighter against Japan.', 'Since 1957, North Korea has spent about $452 million to help finance Korean schools in Japan, according to Oh Gyu-sang, of the Zainichi Korean History Research Institute in Tokyo. Even now, it continues to send small amounts, Mr. Oh said.', 'The Shin-Okubo neighborhood of Tokyo, once a marginalized area for the city’s Korean minority, has transformed into a tourist spot.', 'Its schools, including a university, teach Korean language, history and culture alongside a Japanese curriculum. The Oshimas sent their three children to the schools, but Mr. Oshima grew disillusioned with their intense ideological allegiance to the North.', 'Mr. Oshima said he did not initially visit his family in North Korea because Zainichi were not given re-entry permits by Japan until 1974. He made his first trip the next year. His mother had died eight months earlier, his father in 1970.', 'A government escort accompanied him everywhere, even sleeping in the same room when he visited his siblings. Mr. Oshima paid the man 10,000 yen, about $30 at the time, to leave him alone for a night with his relatives.', 'North Korea let Mr. Oshima visit regularly after that first trip. But he declined to speak at length about his relatives or his travels to the country, which suffered a devastating famine in the 1990s and was squeezed by sanctions as it pursued nuclear weapons.', 'Mr. Oshima also sends regular packages and cash to his relatives, though Japanese sanctions limit each transfer to 100,000 yen, or about $915, and prohibit the shipment of luxury goods like jeans and lipstick.', 'Experts estimate that Zainichi have sent billions of dollars over the decades to North Korea. But the flow has fallen sharply because of tighter sanctions enforcement and because younger Zainichi feel less connected to the North, said an intelligence official in Japan, who requested anonymity because he couldn’t speak publicly.', 'Members of the Korean diaspora protesting the Japanese government’s effort to defund their schools, in Tokyo in 2017.', 'Mr. Oshima made his last trip five years ago. He said he could never join his family, even in retirement. “I would not be able to make a life there,” he said.', 'In 1996, Mr. Oshima visited the seaside village in South Korea where his parents had lived before emigrating to Japan. During the stay, he accompanied his father’s eldest brother to pay respects to their ancestors.', 'Wandering among the graves, Mr. Oshima stopped short: His name, in Korean, was carved into a headstone.', 'To his astonishment, he learned that his relatives had declared him dead because he taught at schools run by an organization that they considered an enemy of South Korea.', 'Despite that rejection, Mr. Oshima became a South Korean citizen in 2006.', 'With each generation, the family’s link to North Korea fades.', 'Ms. An said her grandfather never spoke much about the family’s history. But at a birthday celebration two years ago, she recalled, he talked about his parents, how they came to Japan and later left, and how he remained.', 'Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.', 'I Escaped North Korea. Here’s My Message for President Trump.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


International Herald Tribune: 1894: A Conman Passing Himself Off as a Belgian Prince Is Authentic
['The swindler was found to be the real Prince Looz Corswaren.', 'Inquiry here shows that the swindler is the authentic Prince Looz, a rake of about thirty years of age, belonging to one of the oldest and grandest Belgian families.', 'There is also, it appears, a real live Princess Demidoff, whom he knew, but has never married.', 'He has furthermore swindled many people in Belgium for sums amounting to another million francs.', 'The Prince’s uncle, the Duke de Looz Corswaren, is suspected of having been a willing or unwilling assistant in his nephew’s acts.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


U.S. and Taliban Begin Highest-Level Talks Yet on Ending Afghan War
['The Taliban political office in Doha, Qatar.', 'At issue are a Taliban agreement to keep Afghan territory from being a haven for terrorists wanting to attack the United States and its allies, and the United States in return agreeing to pull its troops out of Afghanistan.', 'After last month’s talks, American officials said that any withdrawal deal must include the Taliban’s agreeing to a cease-fire and to joining negotiations with the Afghan government. The Taliban negotiators, the American officials said, did not have the authority to discuss a cease-fire or negotiations with the Afghans and asked for time to return to their leadership.', 'Mullah Baradar wore a gray-and-black turban as he sat across from Zalmay Khalilzad, the veteran diplomat leading the American delegation. It was Mullah Baradar’s first appearance in such a major setting since his recent release after nearly a decade of Pakistani detention.', 'In the first session of talks on Monday afternoon, American officials once again tried to persuade the Taliban to meet with the Afghan government to advance the peace process, something the insurgents have refused so far.', 'One official said the two sides would break into “technical groups” to discuss details of the framework between the Taliban and the United States before returning to the issues of cease-fire and talks with the Afghan government.', 'American diplomats and Taliban representatives during the meeting in Doha, Qatar, on Monday.', 'Gen. Austin S. Miller, the commander of United States and NATO forces in Afghanistan, was at the talks Monday. His presence suggested that the discussions were moving into the details of a mechanism for enforcing a Taliban pledge that Afghan territory would not be used by groups like Al Qaeda, and for an American and NATO troop withdrawal.', 'Before beginning negotiations, the two sides had a working lunch hosted by the government of Qatar at which the American delegation met Mullah Baradar for the first time.', 'After the last round of talks, Taliban negotiators said that the Americans would begin a partial troop withdrawal as early as February, and that the details of a full withdrawal would be fleshed out by technical teams from both sides.', 'American officials rejected the suggestion that a troop withdrawal was already going into effect, and Afghan officials, as well as analysts, have cautioned against the United States agreeing to such a move right away.', 'They say it would remove the Americans’ most powerful leverage over the Taliban before the insurgents have made any concessions toward a future deal that would be acceptable to the Afghan government and would preserve progress toward rights for women and minorities.', 'During their time in power, the Taliban barred women from public life and ruled according to their own harsh interpretation of Islamic law, including banning music and television.', 'President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan, center, in Kabul last month with the United States special envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad, third from left.', 'Mullah Baradar was a founding leader of the Taliban who was instrumental in its regrouping as a stubborn insurgency after the United States invasion in 2001 toppled their government.', 'Afghan government officials, frustrated by what they see as the Taliban’s jetting off for meetings abroad as violence at home only intensifies, have recently complained to the United Nations Security Council that allowing their travel goes against sanctions.', 'But in a sign that the Americans and the Afghan government disagree over the issue, Mr. Khalilzad, after a recent meeting with Russian officials, said they would seek ways to ease Taliban travel.', 'Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban’s spokesman, played up the protocol that Mullah Baradar received in Qatar. The Taliban deputy leader, he said, traveled “in a private airplane sent by the said country where he was warmly received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Qatar and members of the political office” of the Taliban, based in Doha.', 'One thing that could complicate a next step in peace talks is a lack of consensus between President Ashraf Ghani’s government and an array of Afghan political movers who are critical of his leadership.', 'Mr. Ghani has called for a loya jirga — a traditional grand council gathering — next month that would include about 2,000 Afghan representatives from across the country to provide advice on how to move forward. Mohammed Umer Daudzai, Mr. Ghani’s special envoy for peace, said he hoped the large meeting would create consensus among disagreeing Afghan factions and set the parameters for negotiations with the Taliban.', 'Fahim Abed contributed reporting.', 'Taliban Deputy Chief Arrives in Qatar for Talks With U.S.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Trump and Kim May Declare End of War at Summit, South Korea Says
['A sign in Hanoi, Vietnam, promoting the summit meeting this week between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader.', 'After six decades, the Korean War is technically still not over. Here’s what happened – and why it still matters.', 'Subsequent talks between the two countries have stalled over how to carry out the Singapore deal, as North Korea insisted that the United States must first ease sanctions.', 'But Washington has been reluctant to do so, since sanctions are the strongest leverage it has on the impoverished country. On Sunday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States had no intention of easing the United Nations Security Council’s toughest sanctions against North Korea until it achieved a full, verifiable denuclearization of North Korea. He added, however, that the United States might relax other restrictions.', 'Instead, American negotiators have been studying noneconomic incentives for the North, such as an end-of-war declaration or the exchange of liaison offices between Pyongyang and Washington, according to South Korean officials familiar with Washington’s talks with North Korean officials.', 'But it remained unclear whether an end-of-war declaration would persuade the North to commit to the kind of serious steps toward denuclearization that Washington demands, according to South Korean analysts and officials, who say the North will likely calibrate its commitment to denuclearization on whether Mr. Trump grants sanctions relief, the North’s top priority.', 'American and South Korean analysts have expressed fear that declaring an end to the war would give Mr. Kim reason to demand that the United States withdraw its 28,500 troops from the South while the North remains a nuclear-armed state.', 'But South Korean officials said the declaration would be merely a “political statement” that would “give the North Koreans some comfort.” North Korea has long argued that it was forced to develop a nuclear deterrent because of American “hostility,” and that it would keep that deterrent until it felt safe from American aggression.', 'Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim during a signing ceremony in Singapore in June. The agreement called for work toward “complete denuclearization,” but it was short on specifics.', 'Mr. Kim, the South Korean presidential spokesman, said on Monday that an end-of-war declaration would not replace the 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement but rather serve as “an entrance point” for starting complex negotiations for replacing the armistice with a formal peace treaty. Mr. Moon has also said that an end-of-war declaration should not affect the American military presence in South Korea or his country’s alliance with the United States, which he said served a broader role in regional security.', 'South Korea had earlier hoped that an end-of-war declaration would be made in the presence of Mr. Moon and even China’s president, Xi Jinping. China fought for North Korea during the war, while American troops fought alongside the South Koreans.', 'But on Monday, Mr. Kim, the presidential spokesman, said that unlike a peace treaty that should be negotiated among the two Koreas, the United States and China, a bilateral end-of-war declaration between the United States and North Korea could be enough. The United States and South Korea now have formal diplomatic ties with China, making such a declaration irrelevant to Beijing. South and North Korea have signed military and other agreements in recent months that Mr. Kim said were tantamount to a nonaggression treaty.', 'But the spokesman said an end-of-war declaration is “different from the peace treaty.” The peace treaty could be signed only “at the end stage of denuclearization,” he said.', 'Mr. Moon on Monday urged his people to prepare for a possible fundamental shift in relations on the Korean Peninsula after the Hanoi summit meeting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Passenger Forces Bangladesh Plane to Land and Is Fatally Shot
['Special forces troops surrounding a Biman Bangladesh Airlines plane that was forced into an emergency landing at Shah Amanat International Airport in Chittagong, Bangladesh, on Sunday.', 'DHAKA, Bangladesh — Special forces troops stormed a plane on the tarmac of a Bangladesh airport on Sunday, fatally shooting a passenger who sought to speak with the country’s prime minister, officials said on Monday.', 'Biman Bangladesh Airlines Flight 147 had been traveling to Dubai from Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital. The domestic passenger, identified by the police as Mohammed Polash Ahmed, tried to storm the cockpit about 15 minutes after takeoff on Sunday afternoon, forcing the pilot into making an emergency landing in Chittagong, where the plane had been scheduled to make a stop.', 'A senior official with Biman Bangladesh Airlines, speaking on condition of anonymity, said seven crew members and 143 passengers, including Mr. Ahmed, who was in his mid-30s, were aboard the plane.', 'After landing at Shah Amanat International Airport on Sunday evening, all but one crew member — who was kept as a hostage but not harmed — were evacuated, the official said.', 'Military commandos then rushed the plane and shot Mr. Ahmed after he refused to surrender.', 'Mohammad Mufti Mahmud Khan, a spokesman for the Rapid Action Battalion, a Bangladeshi police force comprised of military personnel, said in an interview that investigators had taken Mr. Ahmed’s fingerprint and matched it in a criminal database.', 'Mr. Khan would not elaborate on the case against Mr. Ahmed, who lived in a district near Dhaka, the nation’s capital. But he said there was no evidence at this point that Mr. Ahmed had links to terrorist groups that have struck before in Bangladesh, a predominantly Muslim nation of about 160 million people.', 'The attack, which was claimed by the Islamic State, was the most ambitious by insurgents in the region in recent years, and evidence that Bangladesh’s militant networks may have internationalized.', 'Passengers and officials initially told reporters that Mr. Ahmed had been carrying a pistol and had claimed to have a bomb on the aircraft. One passenger, Osman Gani, said Mr. Ahmed, who was sitting in the 17th row, had threatened to shoot people shortly after takeoff.', 'Officials said that during the standoff, the suspect told army officials that he wanted to speak with his wife and Bangladesh’s prime minister, Sheikh Hasina.', 'Mrs. Hasina had been in Chittagong, a large port city officially known as Chattogram, earlier on Sunday, but returned to Dhaka, about 150 miles northwest, before the hijackinging attempt took place, the Dhaka Tribune said.', 'M. Naim Hassan, the chairman of Bangladesh’s Civil Aviation Authority, told reporters that Mr. Ahmed appeared “mentally imbalanced” based on his behavior.', 'Mr. Ahmed died before reaching a Chittagong hospital, officials said. It was unclear as of Monday how he had managed to board the flight, a Boeing 737-800, with what looked like a gun.', 'Julfikar Ali Manik reported from Dhaka, Mike Ives from Hong Kong and Kai Schultz from New Delhi.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Venezuela, North Korea, Academy Awards: Your Monday Briefing
['Let us help you start your day.', 'Good morning.', 'Protesters captured a suspected Venezuelan militia member who was supposedly trying to block aid from entering the country.', 'At least four people died over the weekend in clashes as Venezuela’s opposition movement tried to clear the way for humanitarian aid to enter the country.', 'What next?', 'Mr. Maduro severed diplomatic ties with Colombia, ordering his country’s envoys to leave within 24 hours.', 'Vendors in Hanoi, Vietnam, on Sunday, anticipating excitement over the U.S.-North Korea summit meeting this week.', 'Mr. Kim has chosen a vintage mode of travel: a train journey south through China, followed by a winding, mountainous road trip to Hanoi.', 'After the last summit meeting, Mr. Trump declared that “there is no longer a nuclear threat” from North Korea, an assessment U.S. intelligence agencies rejected. This time, the U.S. is trying to extract a timetable for denuclearization.', 'Alex McIntyre, center right, in October celebrating the series of walkouts and strike actions that he and his friends have organized at a pub chain.', 'Alex McIntyre, 19, was raised on budget cuts. A university student with big debt and precarious employment, he has gone on strike, dived into trade unionism and joined the young left in Brighton, a university town of anticapitalist workshops, “red gyms” and rent strikes whose spirit is embodied by Jeremy Corbyn, Labour’s socialist leader.', 'A service at the Vatican on Sunday, the fourth and last day of the Roman Catholic Church’s unprecedented meeting on child sexual abuse.', 'Tips for a more fulfilling life.', 'David Malosh for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon Andrews.', 'Are you addicted to your smartphone? Our tech columnist decided to kick his habit.', 'Here’s how he did it.', 'Remodeling?', 'Left: Sidney Poitier and the Apollo Theater in Midtown Manhattan. Right: The Apollo Theater in Harlem.', 'But there was also an Apollo Theater on 42nd Street.', 'Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.', 'Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Britain’s Big Squeeze: ‘Austerity, That’s What I Know’: The Making of a Young U.K. Socialist
['Alex McIntyre hanging out with a friend in his flat in Brighton, England. Mr. McIntyre is part of a group of young Wetherspoons employees who are fighting for better working conditions and fairer pay.', 'Alex McIntyre, 19, was brought up in a Britain being reshaped by government cuts. He gave up on capitalism after a year in college.', 'Alex McIntyre hanging out with a friend in his flat in Brighton, England. Mr. McIntyre is part of a group of young Wetherspoons employees who are fighting for better working conditions and fairer pay.', 'BRIGHTON, England — Alex McIntyre was raised on budget cuts.', 'The youth center where he went after school was shuttered when he was 10. When he was 11, his mother’s housing benefit was shaved away, a casualty of the Welfare Reform Act. By the time the streetlight in his cul-de-sac began blinking off at midnight a few years later, these events had knitted together into a single story, about a government policy that had defined his childhood.', 'The general election of 2017 exposed the starkest generation gap in the recent history of British politics. Young voters broke dramatically for the Labour Party, whose socialist leader, Jeremy Corbyn, has promised to rebuild the welfare state and redistribute wealth. Hardened against the centrists of their parents’ generation, they have tugged the party to the left, opening up rifts that are now fracturing Labour.', 'Rents in Brighton rose faster than anywhere else in England last year, according to Hamptons International, a rental agent. Once Mr. McIntyre moved to the town to study biomedical science, his confidence collapsed.', 'Students getting their hair cut at Black L’Amour, a Brighton barbershop popular for its low prices. Though the portion of Britons attending college has climbed to 49 percent, the highest level ever, they will graduate into a historic spell of wage stagnation.', 'He is not representative of a generation. But his grievance is generational: that the state has taken away benefits his parents and grandparents enjoyed, like low-cost housing and free education.', 'Robert Ford, a professor of politics at the University of Manchester, recalled Margaret Thatcher’s thesis about homeownership: By allowing low-income Britons to buy the state housing they rented, she could make them into stakeholders in market capitalism, enlarging the Tory Party. With his students, realizing in their 20s that they are not likely ever to own a home, that process has been thrown into reverse.', 'Mr. McIntyre is part of a bulge of young Britons who are the first in their families to attend university.', 'Mr. McIntyre, center right, celebrating the series of walkouts and strike actions that he and his friends have organized.', 'It was a big deal for Alex McIntyre to make it to college.', 'What is austerity in the U.K.? Read more about it here.', 'The childhood home of Mr. McIntyre, center, near Welwyn Garden City, north of London.', 'Mr. McIntyre looking at old photographs of Welwyn Garden City, where he grew up.', 'The panic eased when he found a job as a kitchen assistant at a J.D. Wetherspoon pub. Wetherspoons is Britain’s ubiquitous low-cost restaurant chain, like Applebee’s, but with pints of ale. Its founder, a bluff self-made millionaire named Tim Martin, is an American-style celebrity entrepreneur who counts Walmart’s Sam Walton among his heroes.', 'Mr. McIntyre worked the fryer, lowering hash browns and sausages in a metal basket into a spitting tub of hot oil, so that his hands were speckled with pinprick burns. He liked the Wetherspoons clientele, including the ones who lined up, shakily, for pints at 8 a.m. “Forgotten people,” he called them.', 'But he seethed over the pay and working conditions. Five days a week he worked midnight-to-8 a.m. shifts, which left him shaky and ill. Was this adult life, this relentless precariousness? His co-workers did not offer much comfort: A lot of them already had university degrees.', 'A few months later, Mr. McIntyre strode out on to North Street for his first walkout, accompanied by their union rep from the Bakers, Food and Allied Workers Union, demanding a minimum wage of £10 an hour. The strikers looked nothing like the coal miners of the 1980s printed on Britain’s collective memory; they were sons and daughters of the middle class, wearing wallet chains and leopard skin pants and Doc Martens. “You are already trending, No. 6 on Twitter,” whooped the union rep. “Solidarity from Plovdiv, Bulgaria!” someone shouted.', 'Mr. Cant, 24, who comes from a wealthy village in Hampshire, arrived at college in 2014 and was swept into protests against austerity and tuition hikes. He never drifted back to the path his parents expected of him, toward a job in London finance or journalism.', 'A group of young Wetherspoons employees met up with strikers from McDonald’s and T.G.I. Friday’s as they arrived in London last year for a rally to demand fairer pay and better working conditions at the Wetherspoons public house chain.', 'Now, he is one of the group of hipster leftists who broadcast over Novara Media.', 'Mr. McIntyre wasn’t certain where he stood on Marx, but he did feel at home with the trade union guys. A future was taking shape in Mr. McIntyre’s mind, complete with new friends and new ideas — the thing, in other words, that college had been supposed to provide.', 'He wasn’t sure, anymore, about going into medicine. He called his mother one day to give her this news.', 'Young Wetherspoons employees preparing placards for a series of walkouts and strike actions.', 'Protesters showing off their matching “Anti Capitalista” tattoos.', 'She listened to him quietly and hung up the phone, he said. A single mother, she had worked two or three jobs the whole time he was growing up and still takes in ironing for extra cash. His applications to college had been thrilling for her, and she went through the choices with him, one by one.', 'The next day she called to tell him to stay in school. He said he would.', 'Mr. McIntyre has begun to count the months until he will graduate and throw himself into full-time activism.', 'Before Christmas he was invited by the bakers’ union president, Ian Hodson, to speak to students in the left-wing stronghold of Liverpool. He drank pints of beer with veteran organizers, men with meaty forearms who spoke to him in a Lancashire twang about Maggie Thatcher and the Peasants’ Revolt. On his way home he stopped by a picket of shipbuilders at Liverpool’s docks, his first old-school industrial picket line.', 'He was bleary, after nightclubbing with the bakers’ union president until 3 the night before, and wheeling a carry-on bag behind him.', 'He picked up a union banner and walked out to the roadway to hold it for a few minutes, trying to make eye contact with the drivers. Cargo trucks were barreling by and drenching his feet in plumes of water.', 'A few of them saw him. A van marked “compressed air” honked. A street sweeper honked. So did a flatbed truck loaded with wooden pallets. Mr. McIntyre grinned. He was at home. “I love it,” he said.', 'Britons who came of age in the wake of the global financial crisis of 2008 will, in many cases, be worse off than their parents.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What Is Austerity? A Guide to the U.K.’s Budget Squeeze
['People receiving food donations in Morecambe, England. The use of food banks almost doubled between 2013 and 2017.', 'What is austerity?', 'It’s a campaign of budget cutting that Britain’s Conservative-led government began in 2010 in the aftermath of the global financial panic of 2008, the most crippling economic downturn since the Great Depression.', 'The National Health Service and education were ostensibly protected, but government spending was trimmed across the rest of society: Spending was cut for the police, road maintenance, libraries, courts, prisons and housing assistance for seniors. Local governments suffered a plunge in revenue.', 'Why did Britain adopt it?', 'The austerity measures were imposed to eliminate budget deficits that ballooned to unsustainable levels in the aftermath of the financial crisis.', 'But Conservative Party leaders also sold budget cuts as a virtue, ushering in what they called the Big Society. Diminish the role of a bloated government bureaucracy, they contended, and grass-roots organizations, charities and private companies would step to the fore, reviving communities and delivering public services more efficiently.', 'How has it affected British society?', 'Since 2010, the Conservative government has announced more than 30 billion pounds, or nearly $40 billion, in cuts to welfare payments, housing subsidies and social services, and the British leadership is in “a state of denial” about the devastation its policies have wrought, the United Nations said.', 'What about children?', 'It is not just the jobless and their families who are suffering. Roughly two-thirds of poor children have at least one parent who works, the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said.', 'The police at the scene of a stabbing in Birmingham last year. Police staffing across England and Wales has fallen by about 20,000 officers.', 'Is austerity connected to rising crime rates?', 'That has forced the police to shoulder responsibility for a number of social pathologies that used to be handled by agencies that have been shrunken or eliminated altogether under austerity — adding to the burden on already stretched police forces.', 'Is a new benefits system causing food shortages?', 'But its introduction, by the government’s own admission, was mangled. The system forced people to wait five weeks for their first payment, a painfully long delay that threw many families into debt.', 'The system was supposed to be fully operational two years ago, but the deadline has been extended to the end of 2023. The opposition Labour Party has called for the rollout to be stopped altogether.', 'So is austerity really ending?', 'To be charitable, she was probably assuming that Britain would leave the European Union in an orderly fashion that would largely protect the economy from harsh shocks. Now, that does not seem as certain.', 'In almost any case, however, Brexit is likely to put a damper on economic growth, cutting tax revenues. That would seem to promise tighter budgets and additional problems for the poor, especially for young people, because living costs are likely to rise and aid money from Brussels for deprived areas will dry up.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


News Analysis: With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?
['With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?', 'With Aid Blocked at Border, What’s Next Move for Venezuela’s Opposition?', 'As President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuala seeks to stay in power, we traveled to Cúcuta, Colombia, the site of a star-studded concert organized by Richard Branson and attempts by opposition forces to push humanitarian aid across the border.', 'CÚCUTA, Colombia — As the humanitarian aid at the heart of a Venezuelan border standoff remained shut in warehouses on Sunday, and with President Nicolás Maduro’s blockade still intact, it became clear that the opposition leaders trying to oust him had little in the way of a Plan B.', 'Juan Guaidó, the top opposition official, and his allies had hoped that forcing the badly needed food and medicine inside Venezuela would represent a moment of irreversible collapse in Mr. Maduro’s authority. Instead, just one aid truck made it through on Saturday, the deadline set by the opposition to end the impasse, and Mr. Maduro easily fended off the biggest challenge to his power since Mr. Guaidó swore himself in as the country’s rightful leader last month.', 'Clashes between opposition protesters and forces loyal to Mr. Maduro, which have left four dead since Friday, continued into Sunday, threatening the image of Mr. Guaidó’s nonviolent movement. The military officials crucial to keeping Mr. Maduro in power largely resisted Mr. Guaidó’s call for mass defections, with only about 150 deserting. And even Mr. Guaidó’s own fate remained unclear: After he slipped over the border into Colombia on Friday, disobeying a travel ban, it was anyone’s guess if Mr. Maduro would allow him to return.', 'Juan Guaidó on Saturday with regional leaders before aid trucks were dispatched.', 'But while Mr. Maduro prevailed in this border showdown, conditions inside the country remain deeply unfavorable to him. He is still immensely unpopular within Venezuela, where he has overseen one of the most catastrophic economic disasters in Latin American history, a calamity that has led a tenth of the population to leave the country, largely because of shortages of food and medicine. Further damage was done to his image on Saturday as he denied aid to suffering Venezuelans.', 'Mr. Guaidó, for his part, has galvanized his country, and more than 50 other nations have recognized his claim to the presidency. The Trump administration, a vocal supporter of Mr. Guaidó, has issued crippling sanctions against Mr. Maduro’s state oil company.', 'Vice President Mike Pence will arrive on Monday in Colombia, where he plans to meet with Mr. Guaidó and intends to announce “concrete steps” to further pressure Mr. Maduro’s government. That could include more punishing sanctions.', 'Still, even if few doubted that the opposition’s resolve would be lost over its failure to deliver the food and medicine, Saturday seemed like a turning point, with new talk of a need for foreign intervention.', 'Protesters clashing with Venezuelan state security forces on the Simón Bolí\xadvar border bridge between Colombia and Venezuela on Saturday.', 'Yet by day’s end, the avalanche was more like a drop in the bucket.', 'Some of the supplies, instead of reaching Venezuelans in need, had been burned after crossing from Colombia. Mr. Maduro, seeing the aid as undermining his authority, had declared that his country was not a beggar and did not need it. Government forces and allied groups backed up that message with violence, bringing condemnation from the United Nations on Sunday.', 'Thwarted at the border, the opposition began rallying around the banner of foreign action to topple Mr. Maduro. Ahead of the meeting with Mr. Pence and other regional leaders in Bogotá on Monday, Mr. Guaidó wrote on Twitter that “we must keep all options open for the liberation of our homeland.” Julio Borges, another opposition leader, said he would ask for the use of force at that meeting.', 'President Trump has raised some hopes for such an intervention, saying that “the twilight hour of socialism” has arrived in the Western Hemisphere.', 'Protesters preparing Molotov cocktails on Sunday along the Venezuela-Colombia border.', 'But “the U.S. rhetoric was over the top,” said Charles S. Shapiro, a former ambassador to Venezuela, adding that the statements may have led some in the opposition to believe that military assistance would be on the way if Mr. Maduro blocked the aid.', 'As those shipments were stymied, images of violence marked Colombia’s border bridges on Sunday. Near the Santander Bridge, where aid had been burned the day before, dozens of young men hurled stones at Venezuelan security forces and erected barriers.', 'Others stalked the streets of a nearby neighborhood in search of ingredients to make homemade bombs and masks to ward off tear gas.', 'Venezuelan security forces fired buckshot and tear gas at protesters on Sunday.', 'Those scenes, however, were ones that the opposition had sought to avoid.', 'Mr. Guaidó’s movement had appeared to avoid street violence and requests for foreign military intervention.', 'After declaring himself president on Jan. 23 to the cheers of crowds, he had amassed hundreds of thousands of supporters on the streets of Caracas, the capital, and other cities in largely peaceful rallies. His strategy was rooted in a mix of civil disobedience and international pressure, urging Mr. Maduro’s military to abandon him, rather than seeking an outside military campaign to topple him.', 'Demonstrators walking under a bridge that connects Ureña, Venezuela, to Norte de Santander, Colombia, on Sunday.', 'Mr. Smilde added that the more the opposition requests outside military intervention, the less likely it is that Venezuelans will demonstrate in the streets, believing foreign help is near.', 'A march on Sunday on the Colombian border was meant to be a model for others to come. Organizers said the plan had been for protesters to walk alongside trucks filled with humanitarian aid across three bridges, persuading soldiers on the other side to let the aid across with appeals that the families of the armed forces suffer the same shortages as most Venezuelans.', 'The marchers received blessings by a priest at an encampment at sunrise, and by early afternoon thousands had gathered with white roses and had begun linking arms near the Tienditas Bridge. Organizers planned to use a tow truck to remove shipping containers left as an obstacle by Mr. Maduro’s government.', 'At a pedestrian footbridge farther south, cheers erupted as aid trucks began to approach the border, with hundreds of young Venezuelans sitting atop the shipments.', 'But then Venezuelan national guard soldiers fired tear gas canisters toward the cars. Many of the protesters stepped off the trucks and rushed the soldiers, throwing stones. Soon, large crowds were tossing rocks up to the stone throwers on the bridge, as opposition activists and Colombian national police officers watched on.', 'Anatoly Kurmanaev contributed reporting from San Antonio, Venezuela.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Netanyahu Sparks Outrage Over Pact With Racist Party
['Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arriving for a cabinet meeting at his office in Jerusalem, on Sunday.', 'JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has made something of an art form of cutting deals with small Israeli political parties, but his latest alliance has earned him denunciations from quarters where he has usually been able to count on unshakable support.', 'Mr. Netanyahu, his future imperiled by prosecutors and political challengers alike, has enraged Jewish leaders in Israel and the United States by striking a bargain with a racist anti-Arab party whose ideology was likened by one influential rabbi to Nazism. Even pro-Israel groups in the United States that prefer to air their disagreements quietly have issued public condemnations.', 'The embattled Mr. Netanyahu, grasping for every potential vote, has turned to the extremist party Otzma Yehudit, or Jewish Power, whose leaders have a long history of expressing support for violence against Palestinians, expulsion of Arabs from Israel and the occupied territories, and a ban on intermarriage or sex between Jews and Arabs.', 'Otzma Yehudit’s leaders proudly call themselves disciples of Meir Kahane, the Brooklyn-born anti-Arab militant who served a term in Israel’s Parliament in the 1980s before his Kach party was outlawed in Israel and declared a terrorist group by the United States. He was assassinated in 1990.', 'Supporters of the militant Jewish leader Rabbi Meir Kahane throng around his coffin after he was killed in New York in 1990.', 'The pact between Mr. Netanyahu and the Kahanists set off a predictable eruption from liberal Jewish groups like J Street and Americans for Peace Now, as well as the Union of Reform Judaism, which normally stays out of Israeli politics.', 'But the outrage was not limited to the left.', 'Rabbi Lau lamented that the prime minister seemed concerned only with winning re-election, and, from his pulpit at the Ramban Synagogue, likened Kahanism to Nazism and its ideas to the Nuremberg Laws.', 'In Israel’s chaotic parliamentary system, small parties like the ultra-Orthodox Shas can be make or break when it comes to forming a majority coalition after an election, and Mr. Netanyahu has routinely struck deals giving them outsize influence.', 'Itamar Ben Gvir, right, a co-founder of the extreme right-wing Israeli movement Lehava, in 2014.', 'The two leaders of Otzma Yehudit who could win Knesset seats, depending on the merged party’s share of the vote in April, are Michael Ben Ari and Itamar Ben Gvir. They are co-founders of Lehava, a group that opposes Jewish-Arab relationships and was implicated in a 2014 arson attack on a school for Jewish and Arab children in Jerusalem.', 'Mr. Ben Ari calls Arabs the “enemy” and advocates expelling them. He was denied a visa to the United States in 2012 as a member of a terrorist organization.', 'He first gained notoriety in 1995, as a radical opponent of the Oslo peace process, when he stole the hood ornament from Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin’s car and said, “We got to his car, and we’ll get to him, too.” Weeks later, Mr. Rabin was assassinated by a member of a group that also had roots in Kahanism.', 'The chorus of outrage over Mr. Netanyahu’s actions reflected pent-up concern and frustration in the United States and elsewhere over the prime minister’s right-wing and ultra-Orthodox-approved policies and how difficult they are making it for liberal Jews to defend Israel against growing opposition, including among new members of Congress.', 'Palestinians attending Friday Prayer near the Aqsa Mosque in the Old City of Jerusalem last week. An extremist group Mr. Netanyahu has allied with, Otzma Yehudit, calls for taking “ownership” of the Temple Mount, which is holy to both Muslims and Jews.', 'Aipac clearly understood “that if they need to defend Israel to America, then Israel needs to be able to be morally defensible,” Rabbi Salkin said.', 'Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, said it was the first time Aipac had spoken out on domestic issues involving Israel’s character as a democratic state. Mr. Netanyahu’s move, he said, had made it harder both to preserve bipartisan American support for Israel and sustain enthusiasm among American Jews.', 'For Mr. Netanyahu, his push to harvest every last right-wing vote is not merely about winning re-election. With the attorney general expected any day now to announce that he will seek Mr. Netanyahu’s indictment in a sprawling bribery scandal, the prime minister hopes to line up enough lawmakers to keep him in power even if he is put on trial — “what you may label an indictment-proof coalition,” said Mr. Plesner.', 'In pushing the Otzma Yehudit deal, Mr. Netanyahu even threw his own party, Likud, under the bus, giving away one of its Knesset candidacies to a member of Jewish Home as recompense for the merger. Moreover, he promised Jewish Home both the housing and education ministries.', 'That itself raises concerns among more moderate right-wing Israelis. A leader of Jewish Home, Bezalel Smotrich, who could be handed one of those posts, has called himself a “proud homophobe,” supported segregated maternity wards for Arab and Jewish women, said Jewish developers should not have to sell homes to Arabs and favored a shoot-to-kill policy against Palestinian stone-throwers.', 'With old lines between Likud and the farthest right wing growing blurry, Yossi Klein Halevi, a scholar at the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem, observed that campaign ads had popped up on city buses showing Moshe Kahlon, the finance minister, who heads his own center-right party, alongside Menachem Begin, the first Likud prime minister.', 'An earlier version of this article misidentified Moshe Kahlon, a member of Benjamin Netanyahu’s government. He is the finance minister, not the foreign minister.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Story of Best Actress Oscar Winner Olivia Colman’s Gown
['That Mary would be Mary Fellowes, a fellow Brit and a stylist who has worked for 11 Vogue titles and has dressed the actresses Tracee Ellis Ross, Liv Tyler and Amy Adams, among others, over the course of almost two decades.', 'When Prada agreed to make her Oscars gown, Ms. Colman knew she wanted a giant bow on the back.', 'The embroidery on the Prada gown took a dozen artisans more than 300 hours to complete.', 'Mary Fellowes, a creative director and stylist, at her home in London.', 'But initial calls to big-name luxury brands for ready-to-wear outfits in the early stages of their partnership “did not get what I felt to be a satisfying response,” Ms. Fellowes said as she sat at her kitchen table in London, immaculate in polished black leather and oversize cat’s-eye spectacles.', 'New friends are made.', 'Suddenly, the balance of power had shifted, and the two women found themselves able to pick and choose. So they raised the stakes. They decided that if Ms. Colman was going to endorse a brand by wearing it on the red carpet, it should have associations that mattered to her. It should ideally be, for example, family-owned; make efforts toward sustainability; and maybe involve another working mother (Ms. Colman has three children).', 'Emilia Wickstead gown worn by Ms. Colman when she won the best actress Bafta this month, and the caped black Stella McCartney dress (made with recycled bamboo) that Ms. Colman wore to scoop up the Golden Globe in the same category in January.', 'Mary Fellowes inspects the gown.', 'When it came to the Oscars ceremony dress, Ms. Fellowes said, there was one house in particular that she believed would check all their boxes: strong, intelligent voice; distinctive visual codes; and shared values. So what did she do when that brand called to say yes, it would make a bespoke gown for Ms. Colman for the Academy Awards?', 'The two women then drew pictures of dream dresses in the car on the way to the Palm Springs International Film Festival. Ms. Fellowes had brought along a file of Prada dresses, fabrics and embroidery from years gone by. Ms. Colman said she knew she wanted simple, with a big bow on the back. The Prada atelier set about making their shared vision a reality.', 'Many years ago — early in Ms. Colman’s career, during her bachelorette party in Paris — she and her friends stumbled into a Prada boutique. At the time, she remembered, she declared: “One day, when I have finally made it, I will wear a Prada dress.” By any measure, that day has come.', 'Elizabeth Paton is a reporter for the Styles section, covering the fashion and luxury sectors in Europe. Before joining The Times in 2015, she was a reporter at the Financial Times both in London and New York.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Venezuela, North Korea, the Oscars: Your Monday Briefing
['Let us help you start your day.', 'Good morning.', 'Protesters captured a suspected Venezuelan militia member who was supposedly trying to block aid from entering the country.', 'The Venezuela National Guard, which has so far remained loyal to President Nicolás Maduro, fired tear gas and live ammunition at the groups. Only a smattering of aid made it through.', 'Food and medicine is desperately needed in the country, where a worsening economic and political crisis has left many basics unavailable.', 'Getting the aid into Venezuela would have been a signal that Mr. Maduro’s grip on power was loosening, and would have been a symbolic victory for Mr. Guaidó, who declared himself the legitimate president of Venezuela last month.', 'What next?', 'Mr. Maduro severed diplomatic ties with Colombia, ordering diplomats from the neighboring country to leave within 24 hours.', 'Vendors in Hanoi, Vietnam, on Sunday, anticipating excitement over the U.S.-North Korea summit meeting this week.', 'Mr. Kim has chosen a vintage mode of travel: a train journey south through China, followed by a winding, mountainous road trip to Hanoi.', 'Mr. Kim’s own jet is a decades-old Soviet-made plane that is short of spare parts. But borrowing a plane from China, as he did for his last meeting with President Trump, in Singapore, showcases North Korea’s reliance on China.', 'After the last summit meeting, Mr. Trump declared that “there is no longer a nuclear threat” from North Korea, a statement U.S. intelligence agencies disputed. This time, the U.S. is trying to extract a timetable for denuclearization.', 'Chen Tianyong, a real estate developer, left China for Malta in early January in defiance of Communist Party rule.', 'The business elite that fueled so much of the country’s economic growth are increasingly worried that Beijing won’t pursue the liberalization needed to keep the momentum going.', 'Since President Xi Jinping took over the Communist Party in 2012, control of every aspect of society — including the private sector — has increased. Some entrepreneurs have been “disappeared” by the government to assist in the anticorruption campaigns.', 'Only a third of China’s rich people say they are confident in the country’s future, according to a recent study by a Shanghai-based research firm. Nearly half of the hundreds of wealthy individuals surveyed said they were considering migrating or have already begun the process.', 'A scene from “Roma,” Alfonso Cuarón’s black-and-white art film, an Oscar nominee for both best foreign language film and best picture.', 'A service at the Vatican on Sunday, the fourth and last day of the Roman Catholic Church’s unprecedented meeting on child sexual abuse.', 'Tips for a more fulfilling life.', 'David Malosh for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon Andrews.', 'Are you addicted to your smartphone? Our tech columnist decided to kick his habit.', 'Here’s how he did it.', 'Remodeling?', 'Left: Sidney Poitier and the Apollo Theater in Midtown Manhattan. Right: The Apollo Theater in Harlem.', 'But there was also an Apollo Theater on 42nd Street.', 'Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.', 'Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Critic’s Notebook: Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.
['Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.', 'Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.', 'This year the best moments didn’t come from the host, but from the award winners like Spike Lee, left, who upon winning his first competitive Oscar for the “BlacKkKlansman” adapted screenplay, leaped into the arms of Samuel L. Jackson.', 'And the Oscar for best Academy Awards host goes to … nobody!', 'So began this hostless, in-a-hurry Oscars, itself a longtime institution moving forward and putting on a show without the public face it started with.', 'And as it turns out, Hart — or whoever might have replaced him — was hardly missed.', 'The awards show was so in flux until the last minute that, when Tina Fey, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph took the stage — which was shaped, for some reason, like the cross-section of a baked alaska — it seemed that the Oscars might have pulled off a cloak-and-dagger feat, hiring a troika of surprise hosts.', 'This Oscars marched at double-time, hustling from one segment to the next. It was like eating off a conveyor belt: Some delicious moments went past quick, but if the next bite wasn’t to your taste, another bite would be coming soon.', 'Hannah Beachler (right, with Jay Hart) read her acceptance speech for the best production design Oscar from her phone.', 'A good Oscars host — Chris Rock, say — can puncture the bubble of rich-people self-congratulation. But the need for a host to “run” the show may be overrated. Most years, the hosts vanish for long stretches after the monologue, and the performance feels like stand-up interruptus.', 'A duet between Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper on “Shallow” from “A Star Is Born” — recalling one of 2018’s most memorable scenes — had no introduction at all, just the duo walking to the stage from their seats and the camera circling in for a close look.', 'Maybe the secret to an awards show isn’t joke writing or pizza-and-selfies stunts but faith: trusting in the moments that come from serendipity and emotion — which is to say, usually, from awards. The only way to get those moments is to get out of the way and hope.', 'Beyond the host drama and the shell game with the awards categories, this year’s Oscars were wrestling with a root problem: What and who are the Academy Awards for? Are they for film buffs or casual watchers? Should they try to offer something for everyone? Is that even possible in this nichified era?', 'This ceremony may not have solved every awards-show problem (and the ratings may or may not improve). But it managed, by sticking to basics, to reasonably serve all its constituencies. Except, maybe, the shrinking group of comedians who are both famous enough to host the Oscars and still willing to do it.', 'Spike Lee Won an Oscar. Read His Passionate Speech.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


True Detective: ‘True Detective’ Season 3 Finale: The Fictions We Tell
['It’s a vivid sentiment — Malcolm McDowell’s villain got to say it in “Star Trek Generations” — and an appropriate throat clearing for an episode, and a season, about where time has brought these characters and how they were singed in its flames. Will and Julie Purcell went missing in 1980, when they were children out riding their bikes together. Julie isn’t found until 2015, when she is a middle-aged woman tending the garden with her daughter, blissfully hazy about the past. In the 35 years between, time has done a number on Wayne Hays and Roland West, the on-again, off-again partners and on-again, off-again friends who never really left the case, even when it was taken away from them.', 'And it certainly had its way with Will and Julie’s parents, with Amelia and her rocky marriage to Hays and with Harris James, Junius Watts (also known as Mr. June, played by Steven Williams), Mike Ardoin (Corbin Pitts) and those who have carried a dark secret with them. Some lives have been destroyed, others redeemed, but all have been shaped by marinating in this decades-long affair.', 'The most pleasant surprise of this twist-filled 81 minutes: It’s not a pedophile ring!', 'Following up a second season that was all about the gross conspiracies of the powerful and connected, the series creator, Nic Pizzolatto, seemed primed to reveal a network of sex traffickers tied to the Hoyt estate, with that creepy “pink castle” tucked deep inside a basement vault. The truth is much stranger and sadder, a different kind of sickness that is rooted in tragedy rather than perversion. After all the clues and misdirection and timeline-jumping, Pizzolatto gives most of it away in a large info-dump when the elderly Hays and West pay a visit to Watts, the one-eyed man who has been hovering around the action all season. He has been stage-managing a vile conspiracy from the beginning, although even he is not without redeeming value.', 'In Watts’s telling, tragedy begot more tragedy. Hoyt’s daughter, Isabel, lost her husband and daughter in an accident, but when she discovered that young Julie Purcell looked a lot like her child, financial arrangements were made with Lucy Purcell to sustain the fantasy, so long as Will could come along.', 'Will’s accidental death in the woods was an opportunity to make the fantasy official by using steady doses of lithium to confuse Julie into believing that Isabel was her real mother. Harris James was also present as a problem-solver — he took care of paying off Lucy for good, and he planted Will’s backpack under Woodard’s deck — but the arrangement ended when Mr. June freed Julie and she disappeared into the night, never to see any of them again.', 'Julie turned up under a different name in a convent and happened to reunite with Mike Ardoin, who had loved her since childhood and made her his wife, with a daughter of their own.', 'Pizzolatto is spinning a crazy story here, one that perhaps doesn’t hold up to closer scrutiny. In order to give Julie this unexpectedly blissful destiny, all parties have to agree to accept the fictions that brought her there: The fiction that Hoyt’s daughter, Isabel, was her real mother. The fiction that Julie died in 1995 after her time in the convent. The fiction that her husband, Mike, is willfully sustaining in order to protect her. Hays’s dementia plays a role in preserving those fictions in the end — although isn’t there a twinkle of recognition when he’s drinking the water? — but this is a kind and sensible way to leave a woman whose actual history is too painful to bear.', 'As much as Hays tried to discourage Amelia from writing her book or involving herself in the Purcell case, and as much as she pleaded with him to apply his talents elsewhere, it was never possible for either of them to break away, so it wound up defining them.', 'It is fitting that the final revelation, the one about Julie’s childhood admirer and their reconnection as adults, comes from Amelia’s book, which Hays made the stubborn mistake of never reading. This last piece of the puzzle is hopeful for Julie and it is hopeful for Hays, too, who can finally settle in and appreciate the family he and Amelia created together, and who can receive his partner warmly, with all their past grievances forgotten. No one has to say, “The light’s winning,” as Rust Cohle does at the end of Season 1, but Pizzolatto generously implies it.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Game of Thrones: Rewatching ‘Game of Thrones’: Back to the Start
['The final season of “Game of Thrones” arrives April 14. Before then, we’re getting prepared by rewatching the first seven seasons.', 'The whole Westeros thing is a bit hazy after an 18-month hiatus, isn’t it?', 'But with T-minus eight weeks and counting until April 14, when the most obsessively tracked TV show in history returns for its final run, it is time to start getting back into a “Game of Thrones” mind-set.', 'This newsletter is here to help. What do you need? An epic binge of Seasons 1-7? A compact refresher of characters, events and themes? How about both? We’ve worked up a Citadel-worthy crash course on how we got here and what’s at stake, now that the end is nigh. We’ll take you through a different season each Monday between now and April 14, with in-depth follow-ups every Friday. This week is all about Season 1.', 'Newcomers beware: This newsletter is dark and full of spoilers. And now our watch begins.', 'How Should I Rewatch ‘Game of Thrones’?', 'If you want to catch up fast, there’s no need to binge the whole first season to refresh your memory. Concentrate on the installments that are central to the famously complicated plot and provide all the feels. Here are four must-watch episodes.', 'Because it’s the last time you’ll see all the Starks as one big (mostly) happy family. Try not to choke up when you spot Hodor, or when Rickon runs up to Jon to hand him arrows. Also: baby direwolves.', 'For a reminder of how Jaime Lannister has been trying to tell everyone about that business with the Mad King ALL ALONG. Extra fun: Tyrion goes to the top of the Wall and crosses something off his bucket list.', 'Delves into the touchy question of succession and sets into play the War of the Five Kings. Also: Dany goes wine tasting.', 'For the excellent opportunity it offers to scream at the screen. Bonus: Tyrion bonds with Bronn and Shae during a drinking game.', 'It was right there the whole time: Bran’s recounting of his family history in the Winterfell crypt; the origins of Robert’s Rebellion, which started because Rhaegar Targaryen ran off with Lyanna Stark; Cersei’s bitterness at her husband’s continuing love for the long-gone Lyanna; and Robert’s insistence on killing all the remaining Targaryens.', 'And there were so many clues even if you focused only on the doomed Ned Stark. There was his refusal to aid Robert in his murderous quest; his purposeful references to Jon as “my blood,” not “my son”; and his pained expression whenever the subject of Jon’s mother came up.', 'Ned was a man of honor who lied only to protect his family. He knew that his friend Robert would hunt down and kill even children because of their bloodlines. Amid the show’s other sly exposition dumps — hiding history lessons in the sex scenes or in what might seem like idle chatter — these half-hidden nuggets are particularly revealing. The show was practically screaming the story of Jon Snow’s not-so-illegitimate heritage: Rhaegar + Lyanna = Jon.', 'In Westeros, as anywhere else, it pays to get things in writing. And be sure to read the fine print (and keep it away from any paper-shredding queens). So many characters have a hard time understanding the provisions of the promises they make and that mistreating the other party might come back to haunt them.', 'Such a slippery Spider. While Littlefinger is slightly more overt with his manipulations, Varys prefers to keep people in the dark. His eventual enthusiastic support for Team Dany is a little surprising considering he tried to assassinate the pregnant Khaleesi in Season 1. (Remember that? She certainly does.) For all the spymaster’s insistence to Ned that he serves the realm and wants peace, Varys was actually scheming with Illyrio Mopatis to give Westeros a Targaryen restoration via Dothraki invasion. Mopatis, you’ll recall, is his Pentos buddy, the man who brokered Daenery’s marriage to Khal Drogo.', 'It’s easy to overlook this future member of the Faith Militant as a youth. He is quiet, fumbling, and he often gets things wrong. And King Robert bullies him unmercifully.', 'But there’s more to this squire than initially meets the eye. Beneath his unremarkable exterior is someone eager to get in bed with his Lannister cousins — sometimes literally. We might not have thought much of Cersei’s seduction of Lancel in Season 1, but it’s clear now the two plotted together to speed along the king’s demise. Cersei is good at deflecting the blame (see her dismissal of Ser Barristan), but it was Lancel’s purposeful escalation of Robert’s inebriation that put him in harm’s way. More wine?', 'Are Your Kids Ready for ‘Game of Thrones’?', 'Ned Stark’s headaches are about to disappear. Clockwise from upper left, Sophie Turner, Lena Headey, Jack Gleeson and Bean.', 'Are you O.K. with your kid seeing casual nudity? Great, then you won’t have to worry about many of the brothel scenes. But you might want to steer clear of one in particular.', 'As for violence, are there any lines you’ve drawn? Are animal deaths O.K.? (Some people get genuinely upset when direwolves die, or when the Mountain or Mirri Maz Duur kill horses). How do you feel about seeing a character lose his head or tongue? These are issues that arise.', 'When my friend’s 13-year-old daughter begged to watch my “Thrones” DVDs, I pressed pause whenever an especially wild scene was about to start, gave a quick summary of what was about to happen and then jumped ahead to more kid-friendly material. I’m not saying it’s easy, but if you’re prepared, it is possible to get the show closer to PG-13.', 'What Did People Think at the Time?', 'And The Atlantic critiqued Season 1 with series of five takes ...', 'How Did You Get Your ‘Game’ On?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


John Mulaney and Seth Meyers Fondly Send Up Sondheim. He’s Amused.
['John Mulaney and Seth Meyers Fondly Send Up Sondheim. He’s Amused.', 'John Mulaney and Seth Meyers Fondly Send Up Sondheim. He’s Amused.', 'D.A. Pennebaker, John Mulaney and Seth Meyers. Mr. Pennebaker’s documentary about the cast recording of a Stephen Sondheim musical provided comic fodder for Mr. Mulaney and Mr. Meyers.', 'I spoke about “Company” and “Co-op” with Mr. Meyers, Mr. Mulaney and Mr. Pennebaker at NBC Studios in Rockefeller Center. I also spoke on the phone with Mr. Sondheim. These are edited excerpts from those conversations.', 'John, you’ve been pitching “Original Cast Album” for “Documentary Now!” since Season 1. Explain your devotion.', 'Love of Sondheim, love of “Company,” love of Mr. Pennebaker’s work and the documentary itself. I think the reason it connected with me was that the vibe in the room that I feel in that documentary is very similar to what I felt working at “Saturday Night Live.” The exhaustion, and the amazing talent.', 'What was amazing and interesting to me was how young some of the people were. They were barely out of college. It had such a feeling of youthful exuberance.', 'There’s a young woman in her first Broadway show, with a huge orchestra in front of her in a room on, like, 30th Street, just singing the [expletive] out of these songs.', 'What was most important for getting into character as Sondheim? The cigarette, the 1970s clothes, the sideburns?', 'It was the most physically comfortable acting I’ve ever done. Because to make my face just kind of fall and look tired and not do anything and not smile, and then occasionally smoke a cigarette and shake my head “No,” is so familiar to me.', 'You should see how much John is leaning in.', 'Please note we all leaned in.', 'What did you think of Mulaney’s performance?', 'It’s fine. I don’t have any comments on it. Everything’s fine.', 'I’m going to be talking to Mulaney later this week.', 'Tell him I thought he was really funny.', 'Oh. Oh. That’s great.', 'How well did the original documentary capture what went on in the studio that day?', 'Perfectly. Pennebaker knows what he’s doing, he knows what to shoot, when to shoot. It’s as true as a newsreel.', 'Well he said “fine” twice.', 'I knew Elaine and I thought she was a funny person but I didn’t know that ability, to drive passion right through the walls. What she did on that first version [of “The Ladies Who Lunch”], it struck me as one of the most fantastic moments of filming. And then when they said, “It won’t do,” I thought, what’s going on? This is crazy.', 'How daunting was it to write lyrics in the style of Stephen Sondheim?', 'If there are quotes about the songs, I think we’d pass at this point.', 'No, I’d hear them. I read those books [Mr. Sondheim’s “Finishing the Hat” and “Look, I Made a Hat”], and really loved them, and had listened to interviews with him over the years on lyric writing. So I sat for a week or so with the books out, listening to different Sondheim songs, trying to just ape the meter here and there. Also what I had was a rhyming dictionary.', 'You realize how good he is because you have to work so hard just to make a parody version that is close enough to count.', 'That line in “Barcelona” when he rhymes “going” with “Boeing,” I was like, all these songs can stink if I can have one rhyme that I like that much.', 'You know, comedy writers’ qualms don’t often — pose a challenge.', 'Just in terms of, Sondheim.', 'I thought that was an elegant way to use cursing.', 'Hopefully, when Stephen sat down to watch it, he wasn’t hoping for an equal amount of elegance.', 'Yes. Exactly. No one wants it to be BETTER than their thing.', 'I thought it was very funny. But I was with some people and the people who had never seen the actual documentary not only didn’t get it, but didn’t think it was fun. Do they get that problem?', 'We — don’t care.', 'With this one, even that it’s airing on TV surprises me. Because I was like, No, that was for us. I genuinely am slightly surprised when I see a promotion that it’s going to be on TV, because I go, Oh right, that party we had.', 'We filmed it! We filmed that party.', 'How about the songs?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Best of Late Night: After a Host-Free Oscars, Conan O’Brien Is Feeling Obsolete
['Conan O’Brien aired his insecurities and shared an oddly intimate moment with Andy Richter.', 'Then O’Brien and Andy Richter, his sidekick, paid tribute to the awards show’s most intimate moment, when Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper sang “Shallow” from the film “A Star Is Born.” It was a festival of cringe.', 'With Jimmy Fallon celebrating his fifth anniversary as its host on Monday, “The Tonight Show” went meta.', 'At the end of the show, Fallon doubled down on the story-in-a-story strategy: He rolled tape from earlier in the day, with Fey and Stiller planning how they would pull off their supposedly candid moments.', 'Fallon managed to mostly pull off a regular monologue, in between it all. There were a couple of choice zingers at the expense of North Korea’s leader.', 'Ben Stiller doesn’t take any guff.', 'The “Green Book” team with their best picture Oscars: From left, Jim Burke, Charles B. Wessler, Nick Vallelonga, Peter Farrelly and Brian Currie.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Tuesday: ‘Every Day’ and ‘Lethal Weapon’
['A teenage romantic drama arrives on Hulu, and the season finale of “Lethal Weapon” is on Fox.', 'Sibling rivalry takes new heights in this two-part series from Germany, based on the lives of the brothers Rudolf and Adolf Dassler, who founded a shoe factory in their parents’ home in the 1920s. Not long after, German athletes were wearing the Dasslerses’ spiked shoes at the Olympics. (The cobblers’ big break came when Jesse Owens sported their brand when he won four gold medals in 1936.) In the 1940s, the brothers parted ways after a dispute and each went on to create massive international companies: Adolf founded Adidas, while Rudolf started Puma.', 'Jennifer Lopez returns as a lead judge alongside Ne-Yo and Derek Hough for the third season of this reality competition series, which the creators have called “the Olympics of dance.” (Lopez also is an executive producer.) Fifty-four acts — solo dancers, duos and crews — compete for $1 million, starting with the qualifiers round. The show returns to its usual time on Sundays at 8 p.m. starting March 3.', 'Three celebrity families in Mexico City — the Allendes, the Bessudos and the Madrazos — flaunt their lavish lifestyles and personal trials in this new reality show.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


An Accident and a Penalty Renew Attention to Stunt Safety
['A scene from “MacGyver.” A man was injured on the set of the show while performing a stunt on a vehicle traveling at 18 miles per hour; OSHA said he did not have “adequate head protection” and set a proposed penalty of $9,472.', 'A stunt that went wrong on the set of the TV show “L.A.’s Finest” last week, leaving two producers injured, is the latest in a string of incidents that have drawn renewed attention to the dangers of stunt work. It came just days after the Occupational Safety and Health Administration cited a subsidiary of CBS for a stunt-related injury, and after a lawsuit was filed by the widow of a man who worked as a stunt double.', 'The two producers who were injured were transported to two different hospitals in the area for treatment, Sokoloski said. He said that filming scheduled for Feb. 22 had been postponed.', 'The Sony Pictures Television president, Jeff Frost, and co-presidents Chris Parnell and Jason Clodfelter, said in a statement: “Our hearts go out to our SPT family members who were injured and we pray for a full recovery.” The California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Cal/OSHA, confirmed that it was investigating the accident.', 'Data about injuries on sets are sketchy and unreliable, as are most workplace safety statistics, which largely rely on information self-reported by employers.', 'But recent regulatory action brought some safety issues to light again: Last week, OSHA cited Eye Productions Inc., a division of CBS, for “failing to protect employees from hazards” in August 2018. A man was injured on the set of “MacGyver” while performing a stunt on a moving vehicle traveling at 18 miles per hour; OSHA said he did not have “adequate head protection.” The proposed penalty is $9,472.', 'A representative for CBS declined to comment on the citation and the fine.', 'Also last week, the widow of the former football player and stunt double Darryl Hammond filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles that named the Walt Disney Company, Paramount Pictures and Columbia Pictures as defendants, along with the Arena Football League. The suit claims that while filming movies including “The Longest Yard” and “Invincible,” Hammond, who died in 2017, suffered traumatic head injuries that exposed him to neurodegenerative diseases. It alleges negligence, wrongful death and breach of contract, among other things. Representatives for Disney and Paramount did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit; a spokeswoman for Sony Pictures Entertainment, of which Columbia Pictures is a subsidiary, declined to comment.', 'Peter Libbey contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Seamless Ratings for Hostless Oscars
['Maya Rudolph, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler at the 91st Academy Awards. For the first time in five years, the Oscars broadcast had growth in viewership.', 'Who needs a host?', 'For the first time in five years, the Oscars broadcast had growth in viewership.', 'Now for the not-so-great news: While the Academy Awards show on Sunday, which honored “Green Book” for best picture, had 29.6 million viewers, a 12 percent increase from last year, it still attracted the second-lowest viewership since Nielsen started keeping track of the ratings in 1974.', 'At least for now, the Oscars has managed to snap its losing streak.', 'The 2018 number was a record low, beating out the previous least-watched Oscars, the 2008 broadcast. A total of 32 million watched that hastily organized ceremony, which came together days after the conclusion of the Writers Guild of America’s strike.', 'A brief, energetic performance by the surviving members of Queen, with Adam Lambert fronting the band, took the place of the usual lengthy monologue. Awards were handed out at a quick pace, with the best supporting actress winner, Regina King, offering her thanks in the opening minutes.', 'As they presented that award, Tina Fey, Maya Rudolph and Amy Poehler delivered a quick satire of the usual opening remarks. Other entertainers, from Keegan-Michael Key floating down from the rafters with an umbrella, à la Mary Poppins, to Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper sitting side by side on a piano bench for “Shallow,” kept things moving. Several high-grossing movies — “Black Panther,” “A Star Is Born” and “Bohemian Rhapsody” — remained in contention for major awards to the end, which also may have helped maintain viewer interest.', 'The broadcast was considerably shorter than recent ceremonies and the second straight to begin at 8 p.m. Eastern time, rather than the old start time of 8:30. That meant that the final presenter, Julia Roberts, was able to say good night at 11:17. Several recent ceremonies had dragged on past midnight.', 'The viewership boost kept the Oscars as the dominant awards show program. In recent years, the Grammys and Golden Globes were becoming a threat, but that has abated. This year’s Grammys had 19.9 million viewers, a slight uptick over last year, and the Globes drew 18.6 million.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


R. Kelly Released From Jail After Making Bail on Sexual Abuse Charges
['R. Kelly leaving Cook County Jail in Chicago with his lawyer Steven Greenberg on Monday, after a woman identifying herself as a friend posted $100,000 bail.', 'Earlier on Monday, Mr. Kelly appeared in Cook County criminal court in an orange prison jumpsuit with “DOC” printed on the back, and pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyer, Steven Greenberg, asked the judge whether his client would have to settle child support payments he owes to post bond, or if the $100,000 would suffice. Judge Lawrence E. Flood said Mr. Kelly only needed $100,000.', 'Prosecutors in Chicago say they have identified four victims, including one teenage autograph seeker whom they say Mr. Kelly had sex with for months beginning when she was 16 years old.', 'Another was a girl he met at a restaurant, at her 16th birthday celebration.', 'A third was a 24-year-old hairdresser of his, who told prosecutors that Mr. Kelly tried to force her to perform oral sex on him. Court documents said she reported that incident to law enforcement officials within two years of when it occurred and handed over a shirt she was wearing that day, which DNA analysis showed had his semen on it. It was not clear why Mr. Kelly was not charged in connection with this at the time. Mr. Greenberg has said it may have been a consensual encounter.', 'He was arrested in 2002 on child pornography charges stemming from a tape that prosecutors said showed him having sex with and urinating on an underage girl. But in 2008, he was acquitted on all counts after the girl prosecutors said was in the tape refused to testify.', 'Mr. Kelly’s next court date will be March 22.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Where to Stream ‘Green Book,’ ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ and Other Big Oscar Winners
['On an Oscar night when all eight best picture nominees took home one or more awards, “Green Book” emerged as the big winner, taking the top prize along with wins for its screenplay and for Mahershala Ali’s supporting performance as Dr. Don Shirley, an African-American concert pianist touring the South during segregation. A few of the winning features have yet to debut on streaming services — “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse” is coming Tuesday, and “If Beale Street Could Talk” and “Vice” follow in successive weeks. But all the others are widely available to watch now.', 'Read all about the ceremony and the night’s big winners.', 'Despite persistent criticism over its “white savior” narrative and storytelling liberties, this warm comedy-drama has appealed to many with its optimistic vision of racial harmony against a hostile backdrop. Ali and Viggo Mortensen have a likable odd couple chemistry as a celebrated African-American pianist and an Italian-American bouncer who escorts him on a concert tour through the segregated Deep South in 1962. One of the writers, Peter Farrelly, has a background in broad comedies like “Kingpin” and “There’s Something about Mary,” which informs the unlikely camaraderie between the two men and buoys the film in its darker stretches.', 'At once a personal reflection on his childhood and an expansive look at the cultural turbulence of early 1970s Mexico City, Alfonso Cuarón’s “Roma” is an empathetic attempt to look at the past from a fresh perspective. As an upper-middle-class family adjusts to life without a patriarch, a mother (Marina de Tavira) and her children become increasingly reliant on their live-in housekeeper, Cleo (Yalitza Aparicio), for comfort and order, not realizing that Cleo’s life is in heartbreaking disarray. “Roma” feels like Cuarón’s long-overdue acknowledgment of his own caretaker’s private hardships, shot through with overwhelming passion and stylistic brio.', 'With his delectable black comedy, the Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos tiptoes into the mainstream after a series of odd, misanthropic art films like “Dogtooth,” “The Lobster” and “The Killing of a Sacred Deer,” but he hasn’t entirely buffed out their serrated edges. In the rivalry between two women (Emma Stone and Rachel Weisz), who are fighting for influence over an ailing Queen Anne (Olivia Colman), Lanthimos and his screenwriters, Deborah Davis and Tony McNamara, reveal the corrosive influence of power, but they have a lot of fun doing it. As the queen, Colman is especially good at playing a woman who may be deteriorating but knows how to get what she wants.', 'Read a transcript of Lee’s passionate acceptance speech here.', 'All four iterations of “A Star is Born” are fascinating era-specific snapshots of the entertainment industry, and with his directorial debut, Bradley Cooper contends with an ascendant moment for female pop artists and the star-making machinery that sustains them. As a drag-bar singer discovered by a hard-drinking stadium rocker (Cooper), Lady Gaga’s Ally begins the film as a raw, unproven, unvarnished talent and ends it looking closer to the glammed-up superstar Gaga has become in the real world. Her performance of the Oscar-winning song “Shallow” is the bridge that gets her there, an electrifying howl that sets the trajectories of her and her benefactor in opposite directions.', 'Alex Honnold is not only one of the best climbers in the world, he is also one of tiny fraction of climbers who specialize in “free soloing,” which involves ascending a rock face without ropes or any other form of safety gear. “Free Solo” chronicles Honnold’s extraordinary effort to scale El Capitan, a 3,000-foot granite rock in Yosemite National Park. As Honnold prepares for the big day, the film also takes a keen interest in his romantic life, which both he and his partner know can be extinguished by one small, tragic misstep.', 'Damien Chazelle’s follow-up to “La La Land,” his swooning valentine to the movie musical, more closely resembles the film that preceded it, “Whiplash,” in its visceral attention to the rigors and ardors of achieving greatness. Unlike other films about the space program, “First Man” doesn’t romanticize mankind’s ascent to the heavens, and it doesn’t give the famously reticent Neil Armstrong (Ryan Gosling) some hidden depth that had never been accessed before. It’s more concerned with giving viewers a powerful, you-are-there impression of men rattling through the sky in crude vessels, not knowing if they will ever make it back to Earth.', 'Nobody Hosted the Oscars. And They Did a Fine Job of It.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Monday: ‘The Enemy Within’ and ‘London Kills’
['An espionage series with a familial twist debuts on NBC. And a five-part detective drama series lands on Acorn TV.', 'Faced with the ultimatum of saving her daughter’s life or leaking the names of four fellow agents, a steely C.I.A. operative named Erica Shepherd (Jennifer Carpenter) chose family — a decision that put her behind bars and made her the United States’ greatest traitor. The pilot of this new spy series opens three years after her arrest, when an F.B.I. agent, Will Keaton (Morris Chestnut), desperate to prevent an impending attack, reluctantly enlists Erica for her unmatched code-breaking skills. The job becomes a chance for Erica to prove how valuable she is, right her wrongs and see her daughter again. But that all hangs on her ability to prove that she can be trusted.', 'The blind auditions of Season 16 kick off as John Legend joins the previous coaches Kelly Clarkson, Adam Levine and Blake Shelton.', 'This six-hour documentary series, broadcast over three consecutive nights, chronicles how three generations of the Trump family rose to power. It weaves archival footage with firsthand accounts from journalists, media personalities and others close to the 45th president to trace how he landed in the White House.', 'Judging by the title alone, this new five-part scripted series doesn’t necessarily show London’s rosy side. Rather it follows a team of detectives tasked with unspooling the city’s toughest murder investigations. Each episode tackles a different case, but the most troubling mystery is an ongoing one that threads the show together: The wife of the lead detective, David Bradford (Hugo Speer), has been missing for three months. By the end of the first episode, we learn that she may have ties to a case the team is assigned to.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Review: In 2 New Shows, F.B.I. Nerds Tangle With C.I.A. Babes
['They’re at opposite ends of the spectrum of network formulas: a scaremongering thriller about domestic terrorism (“Enemy”); and a globe-trotting romantic caper (“Whiskey”). But beneath the shootouts and chases they’re kind of the same show. A sad, honest man from the F.B.I. — a beta male despite his considerable physical skills — is forced to partner with a charismatic, rules-breaking woman from the C.I.A. Sparks fly, though perhaps not enough to light a fire.', 'Neither show engages directly with current political battles (through two episodes, anyway) — there’s no angry president accusing the intelligence agencies of deep-state plotting. “The Enemy Within,” however, eagerly taps into our continuing post-9/11 paranoia.', 'And while it isn’t explicitly Trumpian, the series does turn on the notions of both treachery and incompetence within the ranks. Jennifer Carpenter, wielding the sullen intensity we remember from “Dexter,” stars as a former C.I.A. deputy director, Erica Shepherd, who gave up secrets to a Russian “rogue terrorist.” (How many of those are there? 10,000?) When the Russian appears to have resurfaced, she’s brought out of prison to help the otherwise hapless F.B.I. track him down.', 'The connection is hard to miss. Shepherd is kept behind glass, in a cage within a gigantic cell that looks like a minimalist Manhattan penthouse. She takes satisfaction in her mental superiority to her F.B.I. handlers. The show doesn’t take the trouble to sketch in any background for her crime-solving genius, but it does have an irritated agent refer to her as Hannibal Lecter, in case we missed the point.', 'After “Enemy Within,” “Whiskey Cavalier” (premiering Wednesday) looks giddily enjoyable, if no less prefab in action and exposition. It was created by Dave Hemingson, whose experience is largely in sitcoms (his last series-creator credit appears to have been “Kitchen Confidential”), and its screwball-comedy sensibility recalls the shows of Bill Lawrence (“Scrubs,” “Cougar Town”), one of its executive producers.', 'Here the F.B.I. agent is a sensitive guy grieving over a bad breakup, and the C.I.A. agent is a sarcastic femme fatale-action figure with a fondness for enhanced interrogation. They meet-cute when they’re both sent to catch a fugitive hacker, and before you can say “Mr. and Mrs. Smith” they’ve been assigned to a joint task force, where they can bicker over the ethics of espionage and generate sexual tension for as long as the series lasts.', 'She’s surrounded by people who are at home with the show’s rhythms, though. Scott Foley, who did time on “Scrubs” and “Cougar Town,” is Frankie’s counterpart, Will Chase (code name Whiskey Cavalier). There are also Ana Ortiz of “Ugly Betty,” as an F.B.I. profiler, and Tyler James Williams of “Everybody Loves Chris” (and “The Walking Dead”), who plays the hacker, an Eddie Murphy-style joker who gets recruited to the cause.', 'If you’re going to join a family of spies, they’re the ones to choose.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Sunday: The Oscars and Three Great Movies
['A scene from “Roma,” one of the nominees for best picture at this year’s Oscars.', 'The Oscars air on ABC. And for those without cable, three other movies our chief critics liked in 2018 but weren’t nominated are streaming.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Saturday: ‘O.G.’ and the Film Independent Spirit Awards
['A prison drama debuts on HBO. And the 2019 Film Independent Spirit Awards air live from Santa Monica, Calif.', 'O.G.', 'Elsie Fisher in “Eighth Grade.” The film is nominated for best feature at the Film Independent Spirit Awards.', 'Adam McKay lends his signature fast-paced style to this eight-part documentary series on the dizzying and sometimes appalling ways of the global economy. In each episode, the host Kal Penn (“House”) unpacks a tricky topic like bitcoin or artificial intelligence with a no-holds-barred approach. And because McKay is an executive producer, expect a long list of celebrity cameos.', 'Mathieu Amalric directs and stars in this steamy French thriller based on the novel by Georges Simenon. It follows Julien (Amalric) and Esther (Stéphanie Cléau), former schoolmates who, when they’re older and married, wind up in an impassioned affair. Their romance feels wicked from the start, but once Julien gets arrested, their lives intertwine in dark, unexpected ways.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Star Trek: Discovery: ‘Star Trek: Discovery’ Season 2, Episode 6: A Better Saru
['Evolution can come in many forms. Physical. Emotional. Mental. Societal. Saru brings it all in the latest episode “Star Trek: Discovery,” a self-contained, efficient and compelling chapter of an uneven season.', 'It’s not a coincidence that once again, Doug Jones is at the center of several of the show’s best scenes. In “The Sounds of Thunder,” Saru is compassionate, angry, confident, defiant and reflective. What he is not: fearful, because he has survived vahar’ai. And Jones rises to the occasion. Much as Brent Spiner did with Data’s quest to become more human on “Star Trek: The Next Generation,” he shows us that evolution comes with bumps.', 'Eventually, Saru beams over to a Ba’ul ship, where he is once again on death’s door. He hulks up and becomes Super Saru, then breaks out of his chains to save a suddenly imperiled Siranna; meanwhile, the entirety of the Kelpien race goes through vahar’ai to lose their fears.', 'What I am a little unclear about: Are the Ba’ul a bunch of people? Are they the, uh, blob-type thing we see threatening Saru, which looks like Venom from “Spider Man”?', 'Of course, the evolution of the Kelpiens is problematic for the Ba’ul, so they try to pull off a bit of genocide for self-preservation. It doesn’t work. The biggest plot twist of the episode comes when the Red Angel shows up to do … something.', 'The big reveal is that the Red Angel, whatever or whoever it is, might be a benevolent force. One thing is for sure, as the Discovery finds out. These sightings aren’t random. Spock, Burnham and now Saru have come into contact with it. In all three situations, the Red Angel has been used to save lives. Even still, the Federation believes it is a dangerous force, whatever it is, as Tyler from Section 31 makes clear at the end of the episode.', 'The episode worked for me. It was ambitious and tightly-written, and it showcased a character that has been deserving of the spotlight.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Nikolaj Coster-Waldau to Play Macbeth Onstage at the Geffen Playhouse
['Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, in May 2018. He will star in a “Macbeth” directed by the “Game of Thrones” alumnus Matt Shakman.', 'The theater’s 2019-20 season, announced on Thursday, will include the world premiere of Jeffrey Hatcher and Andy Garcia’s adaptation of “Key Largo,” featuring Mr. Garcia in the starring role, and the Tony Award winner Idina Menzel reprising her role in Joshua Harmon’s “Skintight,” from Sept. 3 through Oct. 6.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


David Horowitz, 81, Dies; TV Consumer Advocate Cried, ‘Fight Back!’
['David Horowitz with lookalike toy weapons in 1989. After a disturbed man briefly held him hostage during a live TV show, Mr. Horowitz went on a campaign to ban toy guns that look like the real thing.', 'David Horowitz, whose syndicated consumer affairs television show, “Fight Back!,” made him a national fixture, and who was once briefly taken hostage while live on the air, died on Feb. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 81.', 'A statement from his family said the cause was complications of dementia.', 'Thanks to “Fight Back! With David Horowitz,” Mr. Horowitz was for many years perhaps the most recognizable consumer affairs reporter in the United States — so much so that Johnny Carson created a caricature of him. The show made its national debut in 1976, growing out of a local consumer show he had on KNBC in Los Angeles.', 'Mr. Horowitz’s main technique was to assess whether a product’s or service’s claims were accurate. The Associated Press once called him “a video Don Quixote who makes dishonest advertisers squirm.” He did it with a telegenic ease that was deliberate.', 'But there was nothing lighthearted about a moment in 1987, when, as he was doing a segment on KNBC, a mentally disturbed man got into the studio, stuck a gun in his back and demanded that he read a screed involving the C.I.A. and U.F.O.s.', 'Mr. Horowitz calmly did so as technicians in the control room took the show off the air. At the end of the reading the man set down the weapon, which was an unloaded BB gun.', 'He went on to campaign against toy guys that looked like the real thing. Bans on such toys were later approved in Los Angeles and elsewhere.', 'David Charles Horowitz was born on June 30, 1937, in the Bronx. His father, Max, was a builder, and his mother, Dora (Lippman) Horowitz, was a homemaker. Both parents were immigrants, something that influenced his later career.', 'Mr. Horowitz earned a bachelor’s degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Ill., and, in 1961, a master’s in journalism from Northwestern University. He was in the Navy Reserve for a number of years.', 'After receiving his master’s, he held a series of journalism jobs, including covering Vietnam for NBC, before first tackling the consumer beat in 1973. His consumer segments were soon running twice a week in Los Angeles.', 'As “Fight Back!” spread nationally, Mr. Horowitz was frequently a guest on “The Tonight Show With Johnny Carson,” and Mr. Carson, in a loopy homage, developed a recurring character, David Howitzer, parodying Mr. Horowitz’s style.', 'Mr. Horowitz was also a guest correspondent on “Today” for eight years and had a “Fight Back!” radio show and a syndicated newspaper column.', 'When KNBC did not renew his contract in 1992, he continued to do consumer segments for a time on a competing Los Angeles station, KCBS.', 'In 1973 Mr. Horowitz married Suzanne McCambridge. She survives him, as do two daughters, Amanda and Tori, and two grandchildren.', 'Mr. Horowitz became so well known during the run of his TV series that, he said, it would take him hours to do his grocery shopping because of all the advice seekers.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jussie Smollett Won’t Be on Final Episodes of ‘Empire’ Season
['Jussie Smollett, shown leaving court Thursday, will not be on the final two episodes of “Empire,” the producers announced.', 'Following his arrest and release on bail, Mr. Smollett had returned to the set of “Empire” and started filming scenes as his character Jamal Lyon, raising questions of how Fox would handle his presence going forward.', 'But with Mr. Smollett’s arrest — and the Chicago police claiming they have key evidence to demonstrate he staged the attack — the “Empire” set was on the verge of turning into a circus. After Mr. Smollett posted bail, he was trailed by news helicopters as he returned to the “Empire” set. He did not return to the “Empire” set on Friday.', 'The move to cut him out of the final two episodes this season essentially buys Fox and producers of “Empire” some time to decide what to ultimately do with his character.', 'Fox has until mid-May to decide if it even wants to keep “Empire” on the air, though there are reasons to do that. The show is its second-highest-rated drama and it has a shrinking but passionate fan base.', 'If the series is renewed, Fox has until the end of June to decide if it wants to pick up actors’ contracts, which would include Mr. Smollett’s. Filming would not begin again until later in July or August.', 'There are several corporate changes that may determine Mr. Smollett’s fate as well.', 'A big question for Fox’s producers will be how Mr. Smollett is written off the final two episodes this season, and how they will approach his character if it’s decided he should leave the show for good. When Jamal Lyon was last seen, he was fighting with his fiancé who, in turn, was threatening to move to London. One solution for the show’s creators could be to have Jamal join his fiancé in Britain.', 'Or perhaps the producers could go a more tried-and-true route.', 'The producers who announced that Mr. Smollett would be removed from the final two episodes this season include Lee Daniels, Mr. Strong, Brett Mahoney, Brian Grazer, Sanaa Hamri, Francie Calfo and Dennis Hammer.', 'Sopan Deb contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Week in Arts: A Renaissance Gem, Isabelle Huppert, Uta Hagen
['No need to go to Venice to see Giorgione’s “La Vecchia.” Fresh from conservation, the 500-year-old canvas is on view at Cincinnati Art Museum.', 'Most literally it’s a memento mori, a reminder of the inevitable onrush of infirmity and death. The piece is also a prophecy because Giorgione, along with his teacher Bellini, helped inaugurate the massive innovations of the Venetian Renaissance with exactly this kind shocking naturalism. And you don’t have to go to Venice to see it — fresh from a recent conservation, the 500-year-old canvas will be visiting the Cincinnati Art Museum through May 5.', 'March 1.', 'Good Samaritanism is highly overrated in “Greta,” Neil Jordan’s latest psychological thriller, opening Friday, March 1. Chloë Grace Moretz stars as Frances, a fawn in the New York jungle who still believes in doing the right thing. So when she finds a sumptuous green handbag on the subway, instead of adding a coveted accessory to her wardrobe like another struggling waitress might, she delivers it to its owner, Greta (Isabelle Huppert), a lonely, piano-playing widow with a passion for Liszt’s “Liebestraum,” and some very noisy neighbors.', 'Their relationship, developed over French dinners, music lessons and a rescue dog, expands like a thirsty sponge to fill the hole left by Frances’s mother’s recent death. Even though Frances’s best friend and roommate, Erica (Maika Monroe), warns her that something seems really, really off.', 'And indeed it does when Frances makes an unnerving discovery and tries to distance herself from her needy new mother figure, only to discover that Greta doesn’t want to let go.', 'William Christie leads Les Arts Florissants in “Rameau, maître de la dance.” at BAM.', 'First staged in 2014 in Europe for the 250th anniversary of the composer Jean-Philippe Rameau’s death, the evening features two pastoral, hybrid opera-ballets, “Daphnis et Églé” and “La Naissance d’Osiris,” composed for royal celebrations in the 1750s. The music is as exquisitely heightened as Rameau’s better-known lyric tragedies, but much more playful: In this buoyant production directed by Sophie Daneman, singers and dancers clad in period garb swirl impishly around the expert musicians of Les Arts Florissants.', 'As part of Ice Theater’s City Skate Concert Series at the rink at Rockefeller Center, Richburg will explore the black body in a premiere, set to music by Nicholas Britell, that delves into aspects of momentum and stillness. In the predominantly white world of figure skating, this is a positive sign that change just might be on the way.', 'That apparition propels Georgia from her reclusive existence in Wales to the D.R.C. and the home of Judith Gray (Alex Kingston), Will’s boss at a charity working to change a corrupt system. It also plunges Georgia into the heart of darkness, where aid organizations, child soldiers and miners for cobalt — a mineral used in lithium-ion batteries — collide. And where many who cross her path die.', 'Country radio is slowly sliding back toward its more rustic side after a long run of hits that showcased the genre’s rock and pop influences, respectively. The outsized impact of Chris Stapleton, with his gruff, rich voice and defiantly rough-hewed sound, is a factor in that shift, making room for a number of artists similarly committed to country’s twangy core values.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Best of Late Night: Trevor Noah Has Some Advice for Jussie Smollett
['Trevor Noah has been closely following the case of Jussie Smollett and his hate-crime allegations.', 'Trevor Noah has been closely following the case of the actor Jussie Smollett, who surrendered to the Chicago police on Thursdsay on a charge of falsely reporting a hate crime.', 'The Chicago police superintendent said that Smollett had faked the crime because he was upset with the salary for his role on “Empire” and wanted to increase his notoriety.', 'Noah was appalled. And on a pragmatic note, he pointed out that Smollett could’ve taken a much simpler path, like blackmail.', 'Stephen Colbert had a similar idea to Noah’s.', 'Desus Nice and the Kid Mero debuted their new, weekly program on Showtime on Thursday. It was essentially a souped-up version of their old Viceland show, with a bigger travel budget and more skits.', 'The first episode found the unfiltered, Bronx-born comics dishing on Smollett, Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin, among others. And they scored a hot-ticket guest: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. The hosts visited their hometown congresswoman at her office in Washington and welcomed her into their New York studio.', 'The skit-heavy show also included a parody of “The Green Book” that made it clear that the hosts are not interested in seeing another film using a black person’s struggle to support the racial redemption of a white protagonist.', 'Seth Meyers made a racial-justice movie trailer of his own.', 'Lucy Boynton and Rami Malek in “Bohemian Rhapsody,” which has been caught up in the controversy over the director Bryan Singer.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Friday: ‘American Masters: Charley Pride’ and ‘Chef’s Table’
['A documentary about the country singer Charley Pride airs on PBS. And “Chef’s Table” returns on Netflix.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Kamala Harris Says Jussie Smollett Developments Are Disappointing
['Not as many have spoken up since the police said the assault had been staged.', 'At first, several Democratic presidential candidates expressed support for Mr. Smollett, who stars on the show “Empire.” Senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker both called the reported assault a “modern day lynching,” comments that Republicans are now criticizing them for.', 'Here are the responses — and lack thereof — of Democratic presidential contenders on social media. Several candidates have not said anything.', 'Two candidates who made statements in January offered new thoughts on Thursday: Ms. Harris and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii.', 'Mr. Booker, Julian Castro, Kirsten Gillibrand and Joseph R. Biden Jr. — who is thought to be considering a presidential run but has not announced one — spoke up on Jan. 29 but have not put out new statements.', 'But later in the day he tweeted more definitively about Mr. Smollett. “In 2019, he was violently attacked because of his race and sexual orientation,” he wrote. A spokeswoman said Thursday that Mr. Castro had no new comment.', 'Mr. Biden, the former vice president, said “we are with you, Jussie” after the reported attack. A spokesman did not immediately respond to a message on Thursday.', 'Who’s Running for President in 2020?', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jussie Smollett, After Arrest, Returns to Work on ‘Empire’
['By late Thursday afternoon, Mr. Smollett was back at work on “Empire,” according to a person involved with the Fox series who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss personnel moves.', 'The Chicago Police Department’s arrest of the “Empire” actor, and his subsequent return to work, could have been taken straight from an episode of the show, which has had plot lines involving murders, kidnappings, car bombs, comas and memory loss.', 'The questions Fox must now wrestle with include deciding what to do about Mr. Smollett’s character and weighing the potential blowback if they keep him on the show. There are still two episodes left to be shot over the next month for the show’s fifth season, according to the person involved with the show. When Mr. Smollett returned to work on Thursday he was prepared to film scenes from the season’s second-to-last episode, the person said. It is still an open question whether Fox will use the footage when the episodes ultimately air.', 'As recently as Wednesday, Fox had praised Mr. Smollett as a “consummate professional” and insisted he was not being written off the show. But the network was more muted on Thursday.', 'Mr. Smollett is not the biggest star on “Empire” — the show’s leads are Terrence Howard and Taraji P. Henson — but he remains vital to its success.', 'The producers of the series could avoid making a final decision about the fate of Mr. Smollett’s character for a few months. Fox will have until mid-May to assemble its fall schedule, which gives the network nearly three months to renew or cancel “Empire.” If the show is renewed, executives do not have to pick up options for actors’ contracts until the end of June and filming would probably begin again in late July.', 'Fox’s entertainment assets finally closes. How Disney feels about Mr. Smollett will become a more urgent question in the weeks ahead.', 'If Mr. Smollett is written off the series, it will not be the first time that real-world actions have forced the hand of a TV show’s creative team.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


How Much Watching Time Do You Have This Weekend?
['How Much Watching Time Do You Have This Weekend?', 'How Much Watching Time Do You Have This Weekend?', 'No matter how much free time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you. Come back every Friday for new suggestions on what to watch.', 'If you like in-depth explainers with a slightly snarky vibe, try this eight-part documentary about money, hosted by Kal Penn. Adam McKay is among the show’s executive producers, and it includes his brand of celebrity cameos and sardonic asides. That doesn’t dull the pain, though, of the vice grip that is squeezing most of us to death while the mega-rich dance and give each other yachts.', 'Sunday, at 8 p.m., on ABC.', 'This is the year that Oscar producers couldn’t seem to get it together. First Kevin Hart was going to host, and then he wasn’t. No one replaced him, so this year is hostless. (Not necessarily a bad thing!) Then we weren’t going to get performances of all the songs, and not all the awards were going to be presented live. Both of those ideas were scrapped, too. Now the only paths to intrigue are tricky upsets and spicy speeches. Light those candles, pals.', 'Let this ’90s melodrama wash over you in all its teary warmth. Sibling squabbles, kids who are slightly irritating but often sage, weary kisses and an ultimate all-for-one vibe … if you’ve been missing the Salingers, or if you just want some flannel and earnestness, now is your moment: The show is leaving Netflix at the end of March. If it’s any consolation, Freeform recently ordered a reboot — though, instead of having the parents die, they’re deported to Mexico.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Sentiments on Social Media Evolve With Jussie Smollett News
['Jussie Smollett. As the “Empire” actor’s story unfolded, the nature of tweets and posts changed with it.', 'When Jussie Smollett reported he had been assaulted while walking in downtown Chicago, the outpouring of support was immediate and expansive. Hollywood stars, advocacy groups like GLAAD and presidential candidates expressed outrage at the incident and warmth toward Mr. Smollett. But Thursday, in the wake of his arrest, numerous public figures, some of whom had started out in his corner, returned to social media or spoke out elsewhere to give voice to their evolving sentiments on the matter.', 'President Trump, who last week called the reported attack “horrible” when a reporter asked him about it in the Oval Office, tweeted a completely different response after Mr. Smollett was charged Wednesday with having filed a false police report.', 'Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of Chicago, thanked those who helped in the investigation that led to the charge against Mr. Smollett.', 'Robin Roberts, who conducted the first interview with Mr. Smollett after the reported attack, said on ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Thursday that the developments were “a setback for race relations,” among other things. “I cannot think of another case where there’s anger on so many sides, and you can understand why there would be,” she added.', 'The filmmaker Tyler Perry said on Facebook that he had spoken to Mr. Smollett, who was insistent that he is telling the truth about the attack.', 'And Andy Cohen’s tweet reflected what many Americans might feel at this point: exhaustion.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


A Very Special Episode, but Maybe Not So Precious
['When Penelope Alvarez caught her teenage son, Alex, vaping marijuana, her distress wasn’t just about the pot — not in California, and not when her own mother was off getting legally stoned at the opera.', 'Call it the latest in a long line of “Very Special Episodes,” updated for a more diverse, more politically thoughtful, more pot-permissive age.', 'Since the early 1970s, the Very Special Episode, as it has half-mockingly come to be known, has provided sitcom writers with a ready template for speaking earnestly, and (sometimes) with levity, to families about societal issues, particularly drugs. But as the culture has evolved, the requirements of — and the taste for — such episodes have evolved with it.', 'Viewed historically, “One Day at a Time” represents the most recent phase of that often corny, but obviously durable, convention.', 'From left, foreground, Sheridan Pierce, Isabella Gomez and Rita Moreno. The character played by Moreno mistakenly binges on legal pot lozenges at the opera.', 'From its earliest incarnation, the family sitcom has served as both mirror and model. The Cleavers, the Bunkers, the Huxtables, the Conners: All, in their way, have functioned as workaday avatars for those watching at home.', 'But where sitcoms in the ’50s and ’60s generally eschewed social messaging, there was a shift toward social realism evident in the sitcoms of the 1970s, part of a broader change in the demands of audiences, who increasingly wanted to see their own experiences represented onscreen.', 'Shows like “The Beverly Hillbillies” and “Green Acres” disappeared, giving way to more topical, urban-based sitcoms. The writer and producer Norman Lear, who created shows like “All in the Family,” “Maude” and the original “One Day at a Time,” pioneered a new kind of sitcom, in which humor was used as a bridge to address serious issues like divorce and sexual assault.', 'The Very Special Episode — such as when Maude decides to get an abortion in the two-part episode “Maude’s Dilemma” — pushed the boundaries of that approach. As such, it was often characterized by a difference in tone.', 'Michael J. Fox in the “Family Ties” episode “Speed Trap,” in which his character takes amphetamines.', 'The subject of drug abuse was mostly absent from the groundbreaking sitcoms of the 1970s, but as Lear’s influence spread, creators like Gary David Goldberg made early attempts in the ’80s to take it on with that same kind of thoughtful, socially conscious approach. His sitcom “Family Ties” offers a prime example.', 'The actor Michael Gross, who played that show’s ex-hippy father, Steven Keaton, noted the evident shift in tack.', 'But as Nancy Reagan’s “Just Say No” campaign ramped up, the antidrug episode soon became a staple of 1980s family sitcoms. The tone taken by many other sitcoms was more stilted.', 'Often, they felt like public service announcements for teenagers and their parents. After a group of cool girls pressures the 9-year-old Punky (Soleil Moon Frye) to smoke a joint on “Punky Brewster,” she just says no, lets the girls know “drugs are bad for you,” then goes on to create a Just Say No Club and organize an antidrug march.', 'From left, Todd Bridges, Dana Plato, Gary Coleman, the former first lady Nancy Reagan and Conrad Bain in an episode of “Diff’rent Strokes” from 1983, at the height of the “Just Say No” campaign.', 'Bruce Helford, who worked on “Family Ties” before writing for sitcoms like “Roseanne” and “The Drew Carey Show,” joked that television writers probably wrote those episodes as easy Emmy-grabs — which, he said, was exactly what writers on “Drew Carey” did for “A Very Special Drew,” its fourth-wall breaking Season 5 finale that took on illiteracy, kleptomania, addiction and homosexuality.', 'The Conners soon discover that parenting while high is hard to do. The lesson is ostensibly the same (drugs are bad), but the irreverence turned the usual sitcom self-seriousness on its head.', 'Given its propensity for self-seriousness, the genre soon gave way to parody. Twenty-first century sitcoms like “The Goldbergs,” “Bojack Horseman” and “Family Guy” have mined the conventions of the drug-focused Very Special Episode in order to poke fun at them — part of a broader cultural attitude that values irony, self-awareness and a more nuanced perspective on drug use.', 'Still, an appetite for something like the Very Special Episode persists, as evidenced by the success of “One Day at a Time,” which is crammed with heart-to-heart discussions. The challenge for today’s creators has been figuring out how to have drug conversations meaningfully when the curtain on the old way has been pulled back.', 'Still, she acknowledged the lasting influence of the tradition, which often crops up in her writers’ room, however derisively.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Peter Tork, Court Jester of the Monkees, Is Dead at 77
['The Monkees in a scene from their television show, from left: Mike Nesmith, Micky Dolenz, Davy Jones and Peter Tork. The Monkees were an unabashedly manufactured band, and Mr. Tork was positioned as the goofy one.', 'His son, Ivan Iannoli, said the cause was complications from a rare form of cancer that was first diagnosed in 2009. Mr. Tork, who grew up in Connecticut, lived in Mansfield, east of Hartford, according to The Hartford Courant.', 'Mr. Tork was positioned as the goofy one, the court jester. The director Bob Rafelson, one of the show’s creators, compared him to Harpo Marx.', 'Because they were created for television, did not write their own songs (that was left to professionals like Gerry Goffin, Carole King and others) and did not play their own instruments (they mimed playing on camera), the Monkees were disdained by many; if the Beatles were the Fab Four, the Monkees quickly earned the derisive nickname the Prefab Four.', 'But they surprised many in the music industry, and perhaps themselves as well, when they became popular both on television and on the charts.', 'Their show won the Emmy Award for outstanding comedy series in 1967, and the band’s many hit records — including “Last Train to Clarksville,” “Daydream Believer,” “Pleasant Valley Sunday” and the infectious if simplistic “(Theme From) The Monkees” (“Hey, hey, we’re the Monkees / And people say we Monkee around … ”) — for a while earned them sales on the same stratospheric level as the Beatles’.', 'Both Mr. Tork and Mr. Nesmith were accomplished musicians — Mr. Tork played several instruments — and Mr. Dolenz and Mr. Jones were seasoned singers. (As a child, Mr. Jones had played the Artful Dodger in “Oliver!” on Broadway.) But because studio musicians did the playing on the first two Monkees albums, the notion that they were not a real band persisted.', 'The Monkees recorded for only three years before disbanding; their popularity faded after their TV show was canceled, and Mr. Tork left the band in 1969.', 'But the group enjoyed a revival in the 1980s and reunited for numerous concerts and tours, although usually without Mr. Nesmith.', 'Peter Halsten Thorkelson was born on Feb. 13, 1942, in Washington, the son of Halsten John Thorkelson, an economics professor, and Virginia Hope (Straus) Thorkelson. The family moved to Connecticut, where Peter graduated from high school in Storrs. He attended Carleton College in Minnesota, but left before graduating and moved to New York, where he performed in folk clubs in Greenwich Village and met another up-and-coming musician, Stephen Stills.', 'In California, where both had relocated, Mr. Stills tried out for the Monkees. When that didn’t work out — some sources say Mr. Stills was rejected because he had bad teeth; Mr. Stills himself said that he rejected the job because he wanted to write songs for the show but that would have meant surrendering his music publishing — he recommended Mr. Tork, because people had always told the two that they looked alike.', 'Mr. Tork left show business shortly after leaving the Monkees and at one point taught high school in Santa Monica, Calif. There were financial problems, and personal ones as well; he dealt with alcoholism and drug abuse, and served a short prison sentence for hashish possession in 1972.', 'Mr. Dolenz, left, and Mr. Tork with the Monkees at Town Hall in New York in 2016. The Monkees recorded for only three years, but the group had a revival in the 1980s and continued performing into the 21st century.', 'Later in his career he made guest appearances on a handful of television series, including “The King of Queens” and “7th Heaven.” His last movie role was in “I Filmed Your Death,” a horror drama yet to be released.', 'Mr. Tork’s marriages to Jody Babb, Reine Stewart and Barbara Iannoli ended in divorce. In addition to his son, he is survived by his fourth wife, Pamela Grapes, whom he married in 2014; two daughters, Hallie Iannoli and Erica Thorkelson; a sister, Anne Thorkelson; a brother, Nick Thorkelson; and three grandchildren. His brother, Christopher Thorkelson, died before him.', 'Peter Keepnews and Daniel E. Slotnik contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Netflix’s ‘Shtisel’ Is Binge-Worthy TV on a Strict Form of Judaism
['Doval’e Glickman, left and Sasson Gabai in a scene from the Israeli TV drama “Shtisel,” which arrived on Netflix in December.', 'The stories are the standard stuff of television dramas, sitcoms and soap operas.', 'A young man yearns for an older woman but must contend with the meddling of a domineering father. The father, a widower, is on the prowl himself, though he seems as captivated by the tasty dishes eligible women cook as he is with the women themselves. Meanwhile, his daughter painfully copes with a husband who has taken off on a business trip that cloaks a romantic fling.', 'A word-of-mouth grapevine of emails and Facebook posts lauding the show’s touching characters and its humor has flourished online, particularly among Jewish viewers.', 'Netflix does not comment on ratings. But interviews and anecdotal evidence suggest that Jewish viewers, some gentile viewers and even many Haredim (literally “tremblers” before God), who generally shun television, are bingeing on the series.', 'The response on social media has been so strong since the show started streaming on Netflix in December that the creators are contemplating a third season, four years after the most recent season aired, said Dikla Barkai, a producer for Abot Hameiri Barkai, the production company behind the show. They have not discussed plans with any broadcasters.', 'An American version of “Shtisel” is also in the works. Marta Kauffman, a creator of “Friends,” and her daughter Hannah K.S. Canter have sold a version of the show set in Brooklyn, titled “Emmis,” to Amazon and have recently completed a script they will propose to broadcasters, according to Barkai.', 'The streaming service, which has dramatically expanded its library of non-American TV shows recent years as it seeks an ever-larger global audience, presents “Shtisel” in Hebrew with English subtitles. There is no dubbed version.', 'The show focuses on a family living in the tightly-packed, squat apartment buildings of a Haredi neighborhood in Jerusalem. The members include: the patriarch, Shulem Shtisel (Doval’e Glickman), a broad-bearded, stubbornly opinionated yeshiva teacher with a tender side; his youngest son, Akiva (Michael Aloni), a wispy-bearded teacher at his father’s yeshiva, whose real passion is for art; and Akiva’s sister, Giti (Neta Riskin), burdened by a scheming, apparent nogoodnik of a husband who has taken off for Argentina, leaving her to raise five children.', 'Following Haredi matchmaking customs, Akiva is paired with one young woman after another, but none arouse any joy. Then he meets Elisheva, (Ayelet Zurer) the twice-widowed mother of a pupil.', 'She is a dark-haired beauty a decade older. He is smitten, and so is she, but they struggle with the father’s meddling opposition and her own misgivings about marrying someone so young and quirky. The plot lines that follow — with no sex and barely any touching — treat the dilemmas with wit and pathos.', 'Fans of the show say it humanizes people that are often portrayed in bleak, derogatory caricatures. And the tension between the Jewish laws that guide their daily lives and the yearnings and whims of the characters makes for emotionally powerful television.', 'Dr. Shuly Rubin Schwartz, the provost of the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan. “Everybody’s talking about it,” she said of “Shtisel,” mentioning her neighbors and a friend who is a Catholic nun.', 'Her friend Dr. Mary C. Boys, the vice president of academic affairs at Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan, said the “very human stories” shatter stereotypes of Haredi families just as well-crafted works about Catholic nuns shatter those stereotypes.', 'The show so accurately captures the granular mores of daily Haredi life partly because one of its creators, Yehonatan Indursky, grew up in an ultra-Orthodox family in Jerusalem. The men wear fringed ritual garments even while relaxing at home. The women sleep in snoods covering their hair. Married couples sleep in separate beds.', 'A blessing is said every time food or drink is consumed, and no one enters a room without kissing a mezuza, a narrow doorjamb fixture that contains the sacred Shema prayer. First-time meetings to check out a possible match take place in public hotel lobbies. Even the way a man sits, pulling up the flaps of his frock coat away from his backside, feels authentic.', 'Emma Goldman, a 30-year-old human rights professional for a nonprofit, who grew up in an observant home, not only was beguiled by how Haredim experienced “the same internal struggles, hopes and dreams, heartbreaks and betrayals,” but she also could recognize the loopholes some Orthodox Jews find to bend laws to their needs. Elisheva, for example, stealthily listens to popular music on the Sabbath and justifies doing so because she left the audio player on overnight.', 'Shtisel: Let’s Talk About It.', 'Hasidim and other Haredim, largely the group known as in Yiddish as Yeshivish (they may have a similarly austere appearance, but they do not revere a particular Grand Rabbi as Hasidic sects do), generally decline to own television sets. In Israel, the show was denounced by one Haredi columnist as a “Trojan horse” crafted to influence a pious community with foreign values. But Haredim do have laptops and cellphones and, though often loath to admit it, some will watch surreptitiously.', 'Alexander Rapaport, who runs a Borough Park soup kitchen called Masbia, said that had the show been on Amazon Prime Video instead of Netflix, it might have been watched more widely because many Hasidim run their businesses through Amazon deliveries. Watching on Netflix, he noted, requires the deliberate act of subscribing.', 'Those who do watch (and admit to it) extol the show’s affecting moments. Frimet Goldberger, a mother of two and freelance writer who left the Satmar sect of Hasidim, based partly in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, recalled a scene when Giti is in agony during labor and her husband, by Haredi custom, cannot be in the delivery room with her. He calls her on a cellphone and tenderly sings a song to her, and she smiles and tears up, struck by his uncommon display of affection.', 'As she watched, she remembered the birth of her own two children and the deprivation of not being able to feel the embrace of her husband during labor, and she too cried.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Jussie Smollett Rehearsed His Own Assault, Prosecutors Say
['The actor Jussie Smollett left the Cook County Jail in Chicago after his release on Thursday.', 'CHICAGO — Jussie Smollett, upset by his salary and seeking publicity, staged a fake assault a week after writing himself a threatening letter, the Chicago police said Thursday after the “Empire” actor surrendered to face a felony charge of filing a false police report.', 'The Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson, visibly angry at a morning news conference, said Mr. Smollett had taken advantage of the pain and anger of racism, draining resources that could have been used to investigate other crimes for which people were actually suffering.', 'At an afternoon bail hearing, a judge set Mr. Smollett’s bond at $100,000. He was released late Thursday afternoon after posting bond and returned to the “Empire” set in Chicago where the show is being shot.', 'In Thursday’s proceedings, members of Mr. Smollett’s family were in the courtroom with him as the judge, John Fitzgerald Lyke Jr., said that he found the investigators’ account of the incident disturbing, particularly the assertion that Mr. Smollett had used a rope around his neck to heighten outrage.', 'Mr. Smollett, wearing a black puffer jacket, did not react, though occasionally he whispered to his legal team during the 25-minute proceeding. One of the lawyers, Jack Prior, agreed that the police account was outrageous, but he said it also was not true.', 'The police say Mr. Smollett hired two brothers to carry out the assault and paid them $3,500. They have a copy of the check used to pay them, the police said. Also recovered, they said, were phone records that showed Mr. Smollett speaking to the brothers an hour before the incident took place, and then an hour after.', 'In a document prepared for the bail hearing, prosecutors said they had video of the brothers at the scene, text messages they shared with Mr. Smollett and their testimony as to how Mr. Smollett had recruited them for the plan. He even had them visit the scene of what investigators contend was the fake attack, a spot near his home, on an earlier night to prepare, prosecutors said.', 'But, the prosecutor’s document said, a video camera at the spot that Mr. Smollett had hoped would capture a phony attack was pointed in the wrong direction.', 'Superintendent Johnson declined to indicate why investigators now believe that Mr. Smollett had also played the chief role in mailing himself a threatening letter. The letter, which arrived a week before the reported assault, contained a white powder (crushed ibuprofen) and a sketch of what appeared to be a man being hanged and phrases, including “You will die.” The return address said “MAGA,” a reference to a slogan from the Trump campaign.', 'Mr. Johnson referred further comment about the letter to the F.B.I., which is investigating that part of the case. The agency declined to comment.', 'The actor, who surrendered to the authorities on Thursday morning, has insisted the attack occurred and that he has not done anything wrong. The felony disorderly conduct charge he faces carries a maximum sentence of three years in prison.', 'On Thursday, some of the celebrities who had initially supported Mr. Smollett began taking down their social media posts from the aftermath of the attack.', 'Fox, the network that airs “Empire,” released a statement Thursday saying it was evaluating the situation and the network’s options. “We understand the seriousness of this matter and we respect the legal process,” the statement said. Network executives later confirmed that among those options was that he return to the set and resume work as Jamal Lyon.', 'A detective commander, Edward Wodnicki, said at the news conference that investigators interviewed Mr. Smollett at Northwestern Memorial Hospital and found he had scratches on his face, some bruising, but no serious injuries.', 'The investigators approached the case as a possible hate crime, but had difficulty finding evidence to match Mr. Smollett’s account. The attack itself was not visible on surveillance cameras.', 'Both had worked as extras on “Empire” and Mr. Smollett later acknowledged that he had paid to have one of them train him for a music video. Prosecutors said one of the brothers had sometimes supplied him with designer drugs.', 'The men flew to Nigeria soon after the incident, the police said, and spoke on the phone with Mr. Smollett while they were away. Upon their return to Chicago on Feb. 13, they were met by investigators and detained for two days.', 'The men acknowledged being paid to participate in the reported assault, the investigators said. They said Mr. Smollett had been upset that people he worked with had not taken the threatening letter he received seriously. In addition they said, according to the investigators’ account, Mr. Smollett had given them $100 to buy supplies for the attack, including the rope and a red hat that would resemble one worn by Trump supporters.', 'Those kinds of appeals for public sympathy appeared to particularly irk Superintendent Johnson.', 'Ellen Almer Durston contributed reporting from Chicago.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Better Days for ‘Better Things’ With the Women in Charge
['The “Better Things” family: from left, Hannah Alligood; Mikey Madison; Pamela Adlon and Olivia Edward.', 'Season 3 of “Better Things,” beginning Feb. 28 on FX, feels like the long-awaited return of an old familiar friend.', 'Sam (Pamela Adlon, one of the creators) continues to come to terms with aging; Sam’s oldest daughter, Max (Mikey Madison), has boy troubles; Frankie (Hannah Alligood) and Duke (Olivia Edward) bicker and deal with puberty. Sam’s mom, Phyllis (Celia Imrie), ignores her steadily declining mental health.', 'C.K. later admitted the allegations were true and was removed from the show as a producer. “Better Things” had already been renewed for a third season before the allegations came to light, but Adlon initially told John Landgraf, the CEO of FX, she wasn’t sure she wanted to continue: “My heart wasn’t in it,” she said recently.', 'Adlon opted to proceed, though not without some anxiety about being the sole person in charge of the show after sharing those duties with C.K.', 'In the first episode of Season 3 of “Better Things,” Sam sees her oldest daughter off to college.', 'In a recent phone interview, Adlon and the actresses who play her daughters — Madison, 19; Alligood, 15; and Edward, 12 — reflected on the benefits of working on a set “loaded with women” and their relationships with one another, onscreen and off.', 'Then, after the girls left the call, Adlon talked about the subject everybody asks about, which also happens to be the thing she least likes to discuss: Louis C.K. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.', 'How have your dynamics on set changed since the first season?', 'There was always a sense of freedom, creatively, on this particular set, and as time has progressed, I feel like even more so. We’re able to come up with ideas and take liberties.', 'Once you’ve spent this much time with your cast and crew, you kind of become a family.', 'When we wrapped Season 1 and we were doing [the last scene when we’re driving] on the freeway — when we finished, do you remember what happened?', 'We were all crying.', 'It was very emotional. I met some of them when I was 15, and I’ll be 20 in March. I feel like I’ve known everyone for so long, and just that first season, I would wake up every morning just so excited to go to set. I still do.', 'It killed me. I was getting emotional every time we went back out onto the freeway, when Mikey would go to play the song, “Only Women Bleed.” We were listening to it and singing along to it, which of course heightens your experience. I kept having to cover my mouth with my hands, because I was sobbing. Oh, God, it was so intense.', 'When we realized that it was a wrap, we all stood there in a heap just bawling. And Mikey and Hannah were like, inconsolable.', 'Adlon, as Sam Fox, comes to terms with aging in Season 3 of the show.', 'One of the themes you’ve always dealt with on the show, but especially in Season 3, is aging and how it can conjure up the past. Do you think a natural part of growing older is having to deal emotionally with things that feel unfinished?', 'You know how they say, right before you die, your whole life flashes before your eyes? You’re reflecting on your life, if you’re lucky enough to take the time and slow down and be in that kind of place. I’m at a place where I’m asking my mom lots of questions about the past, because I don’t want her to forget, you know? I want the information now. You’re unpacking memories and experiences, and I have the great opportunity to put a lot of that in my show.', 'In one scene this season, Sam chats with an older man about his late wife while on set shooting a zombie movie.', 'Oh, God, I love that you brought up that scene, Aisha. It’s one of those scenes that, when we’re coming down to the wire and we’re losing time, it’s like, “Well, does this really push the story forward?” Because we only had a few days to shoot in Pomona and I was like, “I have to shoot this scene.” This conversation was so important and beautiful, to just see this man reflecting about his life. You’ve got a whole lifetime of memories, and he says, “Well, it feels a little short to be a whole anything.” But that’s what life is.', 'Because I’m still a minor, I still have a parent on set. And our set is really, really safe anyway, and I feel so comfortable there, that I really haven’t felt unsafe at all. And I love our cast and our crew; it’s just a really good environment.', 'It was a two-hour HR meeting.', 'It was interesting and also kind of sad, because they were saying things like, “This is inappropriate, and you cannot do this to a co-worker,” giving examples. It’s so heartbreaking that this happens to people on set. Pamela, your show has been the first set that I’ve pretty much ever been on, and the show is about women, for women, with incredibly supportive people surrounding me. I’ve always felt very loved and protected throughout this entire experience.', 'From left, Hannah Alligood as Frankie, Olivia Edward as Duke, Pamela Adlon as Sam Fox.', 'The girls are luckier now, because it’s a time where everybody is being watched and everybody’s on point. They have to be on point. You know, I wasn’t so lucky. I started when I was young a long time ago, and people were still getting up to stuff. So that’s why I was able to put this in the show this season, of taking the production out to task for being abusive with people’s time and potentially hurting them.', 'Are there any moments from this season that are your favorites? Olivia, you get to hurl a bunch of expletives in one episode.', 'I love every time someone brings this up, because it was something that I would never be able to do. It was a funny scene, and I had to try very hard not to start laughing. I will say: I memorized my lines in advance.', 'Oh, she was so ready.', 'How much did you practice?', 'I actually didn’t practice. I think I just memorized it, and I remember laughing the entire time, reading. Once I got up to that scene, I started on the floor laughing, because it was just so funny.', 'Season 3 of “Better Things” was announced right before the Louis C.K. revelations came out. Pamela, what was your vision for the season at the beginning, and did it change once you knew he was no longer going to be a part of it?', 'When I was shooting Season 2, I would get ideas. I would be like, “If we get a Season 3, I should do this or that.” So I’m always scribbling down and having thoughts about places that story could go. But when the article came out, my “White Rock” episode aired the same night, which really [expletive] sucked. Because that was a beautiful episode, and it just kind of got lost. And then the gorgeous “Graduation” episode aired the following week.', 'My head fell apart, because it was kind of a cataclysmic situation. So for me, it was about rebuilding, putting my head back on. He can’t be a producer on the show, you can’t write this show with him, but his name’s still on the show as a co-creator.', 'I had to kind of start over with everything. I got an attorney; I never had one before. I have now a business manager; I had to change accountants. I had to think about making a writer’s room.', 'So, where did I want to go with this season? What I really wanted to do was say, “Sam’s a mess. Max is a mess. Phil’s a mess. Frankie’s a mess. Duke’s a mess. Sunny’s a mess.” I wanted to see these women kind of unraveling. I wanted [the theme of the season to be about] the changes of your life, and honoring that. Which is very much kind of a vintage “Better Things” thing.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Best of Late Night: Stephen Colbert Wants to Remind You: Trump Isn’t Normal
['He savaged it.', 'Stephen Colbert highlighted one part of the report, which points out that Trump’s behavior has slowly come to feel like the norm for many Americans. Colbert urged his viewers not to become inured to the president’s behavior.', 'Purdue Pharma, the Sacklers’ company, aggressively marketed the drug to doctors, sometimes with the help of exotic dancers. Noah commented on one pharmaceutical executive and former stripper who allegedly bribed and engaged in sexual acts with doctors she was trying to persuade to prescribe more opioids.', 'Seth Meyers pointed to a new argument that’s becoming popular on Fox News: that perhaps Trump shouldn’t declare a national emergency to build the border wall (a move that could well be struck down by federal courts anyway, experts believe) because then a future Democratic president might invoke emergency powers to fight climate change.', 'It’s clear which situation Meyers thinks would be the real emergency.', 'Then Meyers rolled tape of a Trump rally at which the president warned that proponents of the Green New Deal wanted to prevent people from owning cows.', 'Noah asked Senator Kamala Harris if she was ready for the frivolity that would inevitably greet her on the presidential campaign trail.', 'Jussie Smollett on “Good Morning America,” talking about the attack he reported. On Wednesday night, he was charged with filing a false police report.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Thursday: ‘Desus & Mero’ and ‘School Daze’
['Desus Nice and the Kid Mero make their Showtime debut. And Spike Lee’s “School Daze” is on BET.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


A Look at Jussie Smollett’s Career, on ‘Empire’ and Beyond
['Jussie Smollett was charged on Wednesday with staging his own assault. The “Empire” star reported to the police last month that he endured a racist and homophobic attack in Chicago.', 'The “Empire” star Jussie Smollett, who was charged on Wednesday with staging a racist and homophobic attack on himself in Chicago last month, has been under a bright spotlight in recent weeks — but perhaps not for reasons that a career actor and singer would prefer.', 'Mr. Smollett is best known for his acting role on “Empire,” a hip-hop drama on Fox, in which he plays a son vying for the throne of his father’s music empire.', 'Mr. Smollett, second from left, appearing in “Empire,” the hip-hop drama that airs on Fox.', 'Growing up with five siblings pursuing careers in acting, modeling and music, Mr. Smollett first appeared on the big screen in 1992. He has landed supporting roles in several other films and television shows since, while also beginning a career as an R&B singer.', 'As a child, Mr. Smollett landed a role in the family comedy film “The Mighty Ducks,” about a lawyer who must coach a youth hockey team after he was sentenced to community service. Two years later, Mr. Smollett starred with five of his brothers and sisters in an ABC sitcom called “On Our Own,” about siblings who are orphaned after their parents die in a car accident.', 'In 2017, Mr. Smollett appeared in the science-fiction thriller “Alien: Covenant.” That year, he also played Langston Hughes in the film “Marshall,” a biopic about Thurgood Marshall, the first African-American Supreme Court justice.', 'Mr. Smollett and his siblings have been outspoken politically and devoted to causes like H.I.V./AIDS prevention and racial justice. Mr. Smollett sits on the board of four charity organizations, including the Trayvon Martin Foundation and the Black AIDS Institute, according to his website.', 'Mr. Smollett told the police in January that, while walking in downtown Chicago, he had been confronted by masked white men who directed homophobic and racial slurs at him and announced it was “MAGA country,” a reference to President Trump’s campaign slogan.', 'As Mr. Smollett has faced questions about whether his hate crime report was truthful, he has continued to insist that the incident occurred just as he reported it.', 'Sopan Deb contributed reporting.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Accused of Faking Own Assault, Jussie Smollett Arrested on Felony Charge
['Jussie Smollett on “Good Morning America,” talking about the attack he reported. On Wednesday night he was charged with filing a false police report.', 'Anthony Guglielmi, the chief spokesman for the Chicago Police Department, said early Thursday that Mr. Smollett was “in custody of detectives,” just hours after a grand jury heard evidence on Wednesday that Mr. Smollett falsely reported being attacked and local prosecutors charged him with a felony count of disorderly conduct. A representative for Mr. Smollett did not respond to a request for comment.', 'Mr. Smollett, who is black and gay, had told the police that, while walking in downtown Chicago, he had been confronted by masked men who hurled homophobic and racial slurs at him, and announced it was “MAGA country,” a reference to President Trump’s campaign slogan.', 'Mr. Smollett has continued to vehemently insist the incident occurred just as he reported it.', 'From the start, investigators had difficulty corroborating Mr. Smollett’s story, even with about a dozen detectives assigned to the case.', 'No surveillance cameras caught the attack. There were no witnesses. He had not reported it from the scene, and when he got home was still wearing a noose that he said the perpetrators had placed around his neck.', 'The police initially identified the brothers as possible suspects in the attack, but then released them without filing any charges. The men told investigators that Mr. Smollett had coordinated a faux attack and paid them to participate in it.', 'The brothers, Olabinjo and Abimbola Osundairo, were brought in as witnesses to the grand jury Wednesday evening with their lawyer. Afterward, Gloria Schmidt, the lawyer, declined to say how much the brothers had been paid but said they had testified for more than two hours.', 'She said the two men wanted to clear the record and she urged Mr. Smollett to do the same.', 'From left, Abimbola ‘Abel’ and Olabinjo ‘Ola’ Osundairo, taken from Instagram.', 'Filing a false police report in Illinois is technically referred to as disorderly conduct and can be charged as either a misdemeanor or a felony. In Mr. Smollett’s case, he was charged with a felony count, which carries a maximum sentence of three years in prison.', 'Mr. Smollett’s lawyers, Todd S. Pugh and Victor P. Henderson, have said their client denies the police account. “Jussie Smollett is angered and devastated by recent reports that the perpetrators are individuals he is familiar with,” they said in a statement Saturday.', 'Mr. Smollett’s possible motive in pursuing a plan the police now suspect him of drafting remains mysterious. Various theories have surfaced, one suggesting he might have been worried he was about to be relegated to a lower profile on “Empire,” perhaps being written out of the Fox series entirely. The network vehemently denied that was the case.', 'On Wednesday, in fact, before the police made their announcement, Fox had put out another statement saying it was standing by Mr. Smollett. It called him “a consummate professional on set” and said, “as we have previously stated, he is not being written out of the show.” The network later declined comment on the criminal charge.', 'A week before the reported attack, Mr. Smollett said he had received a virulently racist and threatening anonymous letter containing a white powder, later determined to be harmless. The F.B.I. is investigating the letter but has declined to comment.', 'Mr. Smollett’s manager, Brandon Moore, said he had been on the phone with Mr. Smollett and overheard part of the attack, a statement later confirmed by phone records released to the police.', 'On Feb. 13, the investigators detained the Osundairos after they landed in Chicago on a flight from Nigeria where they had flown just after the reported incident. Police raided their home and, according to CBS Chicago, removed items including an “Empire” script, a ski mask, a red hat and a magazine.', 'Held for two days without being charged, the brothers, who have both acted and who train as bodybuilders, were reported to have ultimately provided investigators with an account that depicted them as pretend assailants in a bit of street theater intended to shake up public perceptions. Investigators came to believe that the rope used may have been bought by the brothers at the Crafty Beaver hardware store in the Ravenswood neighborhood on Chicago’s North Side.', 'Police scoured the area, recovering some videotape from neighboring stores in an apparent effort to corroborate the brothers’ account.', 'In some ways the marked shift in opinion resembled the aftermath of last month’s incident in Washington where videos appeared to show high school students from Covington, Ky,. wearing “Make America Great Again” hats, engage in a standoff with an elderly Native American man. As more videos surfaced, the encounter appeared to have been more complicated. The students themselves had been subjected to ridicule by African-American protesters nearby and their defenders suggested they had been unfairly portrayed by a liberal media too quick to judge.', 'In the Smollett case, the Chicago police continued for weeks to assert that Mr. Smollett was considered a victim. But in recent days, the demeanor of investigators changed. On Tuesday, they released an unconfirmed tip reporting that Mr. Smollett had been seen with the brothers in an elevator on the night of the attack. The report was later debunked but the change in perspective by the police was clear.', 'An earlier version of this article misstated who approved the charges against Jussie Smollett. He was charged by prosecutors with staging his own assault; he was not indicted by a grand jury.', 'Because of an editing error, a headline on an earlier version of this article incorrectly reported the accusation against Mr. Smollett. He is accused of faking his own assault, not faking his own death.', 'Jack Healy and Ellen Almer Durston contributed reporting from Chicago.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Fox Stands by Jussie Smollett: ‘He Is Not Being Written Out of the Show’
['The network said Wednesday that Mr. Smollett remains a part of the “Empire” cast.', 'A representative for Mr. Smollett declined to comment.', 'Multiple outlets had reported that Mr. Smollett was being written out of the show in the aftermath of an announcement by the Chicago police that the trajectory of the investigation had changed.', 'The police have said they are now seeking to interview Mr. Smollett again after hearing the accounts of two brothers, initially identified as possible suspects in the attack and who were later released. Multiple media outlets have reported that the brothers told investigators that Mr. Smollett staged the incident — in which they participated — in the pursuit of public attention.', 'Mr. Smollett, through his lawyers, has denied any role in coordinating an attack. The police have not commented publicly about the brothers’ accounts.', 'The chief spokesman for the Chicago Police Department, Anthony Guglielmi, said Wednesday that the investigation was still being classified as an aggravated battery and potential hate crime. He said that detectives were in an “ongoing dialogue” with Mr. Smollett’s legal team and that they were “trying to be as amenable as possible” in helping to corroborate new information they had received.', 'The case began on Jan. 29, when Mr. Smollett told the police that he had been assaulted in downtown Chicago by two masked men who yelled homophobic and racist slurs at him. The case has received a firestorm of national attention.', 'Reports last week, citing anonymous law enforcement officials, said the detectives suspected Mr. Smollett may have perpetrated a hoax as a response to being written off “Empire.” Fox called the assertion “patently ridiculous” at the time and Fox’s statement on Wednesday was a significant show of support for the actor even as public opinion about the incident has shifted.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Calling K-Pop Stars ‘Identical,’ South Korea Tries to Limit Their Influence
['Members of the K-pop group SixBomb in 2017.', 'HONG KONG — Doe-eyed with delicate features. A sharp jawline and willowy figure. Fair skin so clear it almost glows.', 'With many South Korean pop idols fitting that description in their sleekly produced music videos, their mass appeal has many of the country’s young people wanting to look just like them.', 'But in an effort to tone down their influence in a beauty-obsessed country where plastic surgery is rampant, South Korea’s government is trying to limit the stars’ presence on television, saying they look too much alike.', 'Some compared the guidelines to the censorship imposed during the country’s military dictatorship during the latter half of the 20th century.', 'Ha Tae-kyung, a politician from an opposition party, compared the guidelines — which the gender ministry said applied to both female and male performers — to restrictions on hair and skirt lengths during the dictatorship.', 'In the guidelines, officials suggested that shows avoid featuring performers “whose appearances are exceedingly similar” in the same program.', 'Some South Koreans have openly celebrated having cosmetic surgery, documenting their physical transformations as a rite of passage.', 'In a pair of videos called “Getting Pretty Before” and “Getting Pretty After,” members of the K-pop group SixBomb giddily went for manicures between appointments at a plastic surgeon, where their faces were prodded and poked.', 'Su-Hyun Lee contributed research from South Korea.', 'We’re Dating, K-Pop Stars Declare. You’re Fired, Their Label Says.', 'South Korea Loves Plastic Surgery and Makeup. Some Women Want to Change That.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Best of Late Night: Jimmy Fallon Gets in Costume to Roast Bernie Sanders
['Jimmy Fallon dressed up as Senator Bernie Sanders and parodied his campaign announcement.', 'Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont begins his campaign for president with a few advantages: Having run in 2016, he already has widespread name recognition and a broad base of supporters and donors. Meanwhile, comics looking to make fun of him also have a head start.', 'After delivering a string of one-liners, Fallon presented a parody of Sanders’s campaign announcement. The “Tonight Show” host donned glasses and a gray wig, and impersonated Sanders’s Brooklynite inflection.', 'Stephen Colbert was amused by the way Sanders chose to announce his presidential bid: at 6:20 a.m., on Vermont Public Radio.', 'To help wash down all that Bernie Sanders content, here’s a warm and fuzzy video about a couple of billionahs.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


What’s on TV Wednesday: ‘Documentary Now!’ and ‘The Incredibles’
['Learn about an unusual cult that never existed in the season premiere of “Documentary Now!” And, with “Incredibles 2” competing for an Oscar this weekend, revisit its prequel on Freeform.', 'DOCUMENTARY NOW!', 'A scruffy Owen Wilson plays Father Ra-Shawbard, a self-proclaimed spiritual leader who heads a commune of followers in Chinook, Ore., in the 1980s with the help of his assistant Ra-Sharir (Necar Zadegan). Michael Keaton appears as an agent in the F.B.I.’s “elite cult unit” who, contrary to traditional story lines, has a lot to do with Ra-Shawbard’s ascent.', 'Want the secret to a long, healthy life? This new film suggests looking to naked mole rats, which have remarkably strong genes that perplex researchers. Scientists explain how these hairless, burrowing rodents manage to live on low oxygen and why they rarely get cancer. The rats may not be the planet’s prettiest creatures, but their biology is fascinating.', 'In this new game show, presented by Buzzfeed News, contestants with opposing views (say, cat people versus dog people) compete for cash by answering questions that push them to think outside their bubble.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


The Second Half of ‘Arrested Development’ Season 5 Gets an Official Release Date
['From left, Jessica Walter, Jeffrey Tambor, David Cross and Will Arnett in “Arrested Development.” The second half of Season 5 returns March 15.', 'On Tuesday, Netflix announced that eight episodes comprising the second half of its fifth season will be released on the streaming service on March 15.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


Game of Thrones: ‘Game of Thrones’ Season 8: Here’s What We Know
['Kit Harington and Emilia Clarke in “Game of Thrones,” which returns April 14 for its eighth and final season on HBO.', 'It will be big!', 'But this season will be even bigger, with six nearly feature length episodes and some of the largest, most complex sequences ever filmed for television. The final clash between the heroes and the undead White Walkers, in particular, took many weeks to film, including 55 nights of outdoor shooting.', 'And that’s presumably before the show even gets to the final clash to determine who actually wins this whole, you know, game of thrones.', 'There will be new alliances.', 'Some of the more enjoyable scenes of the occasionally lackluster Season 7 came when the far-flung characters we’ve been watching for years finally met, or were reunited. Jon and Daenerys, of course, but also Cersei and Daenerys. Jaime and Daenerys. Arya and Sansa.', 'As one might expect, battles between the living and the dead inspire new partnerships.', 'It will be satisfying. Or not.', 'This jibes with what George R.R. Martin, the godhead of the “Thrones” universe, has suggested, which is that the end of the saga will be bittersweet.', 'Fan theories abound about, well, everything involved in this show. And a fringe-y but persistent one holds that the show’s ur-bad guy, the undead Night King, will be the one who ultimately sits on the Iron Throne.', 'That seems less “bittersweet” than “nutty and unlikely.” But so did plenty of other things that eventually transpired on “Game of Thrones,” so who knows?', 'Of course, this isn’t really the end.', 'Well, this part of the story will end. But given the show’s extraordinary — and extraordinarily profitable — success, we’ve most likely only just begun exploring the “Thrones” universe.', 'So while winter is finally here, this game will be on, in some form, for the foreseeable future.', 'Some ‘Game of Thrones’ Deaths Are Tragic. Others, Not So Much.', 'U.S.', 'U.S.']


More than 60 dead as Iraqis mark end to lethal Ramadan
[]


Sinai Peninsula: 4 militants reportedly killed in Israeli drone strike
[]


2 Turkish Airlines crew kidnapped by unidentified gunmen in Lebanon
[]


Cargo plane of weapons crashes on Mogadishu runway
[]


Afghan president Karzai calls on Taliban to stop violence
[]


Massive fire closes Nairobi airport; flights rerouted
[]


Human Rights Watch claims ballistic missiles are killing children in Syria
[]


Turkey-Coup Plot: Verdicts of Turkish coup plot trial expected on Monday
[]


Envoys in Egypt visit jailed deputy Brotherhood leader El-Shater
[]


New Iranian president Rouhani vows support for Syrian president Assad
[]


Fears of attack force US posts in Muslim world to remain closed
[]


Robert Mugabe ahead in early results as rivals reject 'sham' Zimbabwe poll
[]


Counting underway in knife-edge Zimbabwe election
[]


Egypt allows EU envoy to see deposed Mohamed Morsi
[]


Egypt Islamists arrested, protesters call mass demonstration
[]


Iraq car bombings: At least 55 killed, Iraqi Shi'ites targeted
[]


Blasts near Libya courthouse injure 13: security sources
[]


Mohamed Morsi supporters defiant in face of Egypt government threat
[]


Egypt unrest: Muslim Brotherhood claims 200 killed in police firing
[]


Israel to vote for release of 104 Palestinian prisoners
[]


US calls for calm in Egypt as violence escalates
[]


Violence deepens in Egypt, Mohamed Morsi probed for murder
[]


Egypt court orders detention of Morsi over Hamas links
[]


Deadly Middle East virus unlikely to cause SARS-like epidemic
[]


Detained Morsi aides request prison clothes: Family
[]


Ousted Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi's family accuses army of abducting him
[]


Dubai's ruler pardons Norwegian woman who alleged rape
[]


Suicide bomb attack on Iraq army convoy kills 10
[]


Woman jailed in Dubai after reporting rape hopes to warn others
[]


Inspired by Nelson Mandela, UN staff volunteer in their communities
[]


Disputes between Mohamed Morsi, military led to Egypt coup
[]


WHO holds off raising MERS alert level as Muslim Hajj looms
[]


Nelson Mandela makes 'dramatic' progress, says daughter
[]


Dubai diet: Slim down, get paid in gold
[]


Egypt militants kill 3 in Sinai bus attack
[]


Prosecutors launch criminal probe against Morsi
[]


Egypt's divide turns brother against brother
[]


Indigent benefit as Rameshwar Temple in South Africa turns 25
[]


Egyptians throng streets in support of army-backed revolt
[]


30 killed, hundreds injured as Muslim Brotherhood vows more protests in Egypt
[]


Mandela vs Mandela family feud sinks to soap opera
[]


Mohammed Morsi backers to protest after overthrow, arrests
[]


Mandela on life support, faces 'impending death'
[]


Top Brotherhood figures seized in Egypt sweep
[]


Libya starts facing up to Muammar Gaddafi regime's sex crimes
[]


Nelson Mandela's health 'perilous': Leaked court papers
[]


Mohamed Morsi's fall a blow to Islamists
[]


Egypt police arrest top Brotherhood leaders
[]


Egypt's army overthrows Mohamed Morsi, places him under house arrest
[]


Military coup underway in Egypt: top Morsi aide
[]


Mohammad Morsi, Egypt army pledge lives in 'Final Hours' showdown
[]


Nelson Mandela family seeks criminal charges in grave rift
[]


16 dead in Egypt protests, Oppn gives ultimatum to Mohamed Morsi
[]


Nelson Mandela still a symbol of unity: Desmond Tutu
[]


On first anniversary, Egypt protesters greet Mohammed Morsi with call for his ouster
[]


Syrian army launches offensive in Homs city
[]


Nelson Mandela's alleged love child snubbed as South Africans pray for him
[]


Nelson Mandela's daughter on his condition: 'I won't lie, it doesn't look good'
[]


Nelson Mandela's condition deteriorates, on life support system
[]


How to oust a president, Egyptian-style
[]


South Africans resigned over 'critical' Nelson Mandela
[]


US war games send signal to Bashar al-Assad
[]


Taliban to start peace talks with US, Afghanistan, open office in Qatar
[]


Separate attacks kill 32 people across Iraq
[]


Iraq journalists held for 'stealing' minister's notepad
[]


Violence in Benghazi leads to death of three Libyan soldiers
[]


Ailing anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela remains in hospital for 5th day
[]


Qatar has highest density of millionaires: study
[]


Hosni Mubarak Trial: Egypt court adjourned amidst outpour of anger
[]


Nelson Mandela taken to hospital, condition 'serious but stable'
[]


Saudi prince sues Forbes for saying he's only worth $20 bn: report
[]


Indian arrested in Saudi Arabia for attempting sorcery on boss
[]


Israeli serial sex abuser adopts Indian girl through surrogate mothe: report
[]


Egypt convicts 43, including Americans, in NGO case
[]


Bashar al-Assad gets Russia to sell at least 10 MiG fighters to Syria
[]


Russia to sell at least 10 MiG fighters to Syria
[]


Gay Rights to be on Barack Obama's radar during trip to Africa
[]


African leaders in Ethiopia to mark the 50th anniversary of African Union
[]


Iran says it is producing new air defense missiles
[]


Hezbollah intensifies battle in Syria as Israel threatens more strikes
[]


Guptagate probe: Indian High Commission official implicated for 'name-dropping'
[]


Ritual circumcision kills 23 males in South Africa
[]


Barack Obama rules out unilateral action on Syria
[]


One in 10 South Africans HIV positive
[]


6.2 magnitude quake kills child, causes damage in southern Iran
[]


Magnitude 6.3 earthquake strikes Oman
[]


Syrian civil war: Israeli PM visits China after Syria strikes
[]


Israel launches airstrike into Syria
[]


After Guptagate, 'marriage-of-century' family fuels racism row
[]


Guptagate: More officials suspended over 'marriage of the century'
[]


After Lamborghini, Dubai police show off Ferrari
[]


Saudi Arbabia to make employers pay for deporting illegal workers
[]


US to sign arms deal with Israel, two Arab nations next week
[]


Mossad launches online recruitment campaign
[]


Nelson Mandela 'doing well' following hospital release: wife
[]


Hosni Mubarak set for low key retrial in Egypt
[]


Bling patrol: Dubai's $550,000 squad car, a Lamborghini
[]


Israel comes to standstill to remember Holocaust
[]


Militant group claims killing 15 policemen in Nigeria's south
[]


Palestinian youths shot to death as West Bank seethes
[]


Nelson Mandela once fell in love with Indian-origin lady: book
[]


Christians mark Jesus' crucifixion on Good Friday
[]


Nelson Mandela in hospital for second day, responding 'positively'
[]


South Africa's 'Blade Runner' seeks to ease bail terms
[]


Nelson Mandela re-admitted to hospital
[]


Saudi Arabia's top cleric criticizes Twitter users, calls it 'a council for jokesters'
[]


Rockets hit Israel as Barack Obama meets Palestinians
[]


Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel cannot cede self-defence
[]


Saudi prince jailed in Britain for murder flies home
[]


Hate graffiti sprayed on Jewish homes in Tel Aviv
[]


At least 16 killed in northern Nigeria explosion
[]


Muslim Brotherhood says UN text on women's rights un-Islamic
[]


U.S President Barack Obama won't trip over Netanyahu's Iran 'red line'
[]


'US will stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons at any cost'
[]


US imposes sanctions on covert Iran oil-shipping network
[]


Mullahs slam 'sinful' Iran prez Mahmoud Ahmadinejad over link to Hugo Chavez' mother
[]


TV channel for dogs launched in Israel
[]


Al-Qaeda claims killing of 48 Syrian soldiers in Iraq
[]


Saudi Arabia could end beheadings 'due to shortage of swordsmen'
[]


Report: Saudis rethinking method of execution
[]


Egypt women wage war against 'sexual terrorism'
[]


UN says 20 peacekeepers detained on Golan Heights
[]


4 policemen butchered as Kenyans queue in tense vote
[]


India, Iran must promote trade, economic links: Prez Pranab Mukherjee
[]


Pistorius' girlfriend was pregnant when shot to death: report
[]


Pistorius case: Now, Indian-origin magistrate's cousin involved in murder
[]


World powers give Iran new offer at crunch talks
[]


Car bomb kills five soldiers in Damascus as clashes erupt
[]


Campaign to save birthplace of Bronte sisters
[]


'No dearth of leaders, Rao will repent''
[]


5 let off in JandK sex scandal
[]


Hooda offers highest ever sugarcane price to farmers
[]


Punjab CEO meets all parties
[]


Singer-MLA cranks up volume at Cong rallies
[]


Hyderabad CFSL to test 'Honey Singh'' CD
[]


PM arrives on 4-day visit, US court issues summons against him
[]


UPA govt depriving Punjab of industrial expansion: Sukhbir
[]


IAS officers from state eye 'comfortable'' postings in UT
[]


Man held in UP for terror links
[]


On sale: 'Army uniform'' for Rs 300
[]


Ahead of meet, Registrar writes to BCCI on HPCA status
[]


Where is my separate high court: Hooda
[]


Haryana cracks whip against power theft, lodges 8,951 FIRs
[]


Replies during lie detector test were deceptive: CBI chargesheet
[]


'Blackmailed'' over obscene pictures, teen 'kills self''
[]


Still waiting for Badal''s response on Amritsar: Sidhu
[]


Another 'honour killing'': Girl killed, cremated in Panipat
[]


Briefly state
[]


'Operation Deadwood'': 5 IAS officers under the scanner
[]


Plaque with Phillaur''s name demolished at Kartarpur
[]


Will invite my attackers to gurdwara: Sikh professor
[]


Within a year, people will come to Punjab for cancer treatment: Badal
[]


All four BJP ministers get new portflios
[]


Congress set for day-long kabaddi tournament
[]


SC upholds progression scheme for military doctors
[]


Fax alert gives officers head start over stormy weather
[]


No matches at Dharamsala stadium till completion of probe: Virbhadra
[]


HC bats for poor land owners; says rehabilitation first is a must
[]


Gujarat honours Mansa farmer with cash award
[]


HC seeks list of experts to review controversial book
[]


Bishnoi wants HC to serve summons to Sharma through newspapers
[]


Sidhu-Badal spat a minor problem, will be solved soon, says Rajnath
[]


HC glare on selection of assistant profs
[]


BJP frowns on dwindling fiscal health, lack of funds for projects
[]


Kabaddi row takes ugly turn, Cong MLAs held on way to rural tourney
[]


Cops 'frame'' man, HC orders SIT probe
[]


Virbhadra urges PM to sensitise cops to prevent communal riots
[]


Haryana seeks Rs 500 crore to bring force on par with Delhi
[]


Punjab govt demands justice for riot victims
[]


Briefly Region: KU observes martyrdom day
[]


Akal Takht chief wants Obama to take stringent measures to check hate crimes against Sikhs
[]


Tribunal lifts stay on promotion of 12 PCS officers to IAS
[]


Won''t accept defeat, this conspiracy won''t last long: Chautala to party
[]


CBI chargesheet handed over to MLAs
[]


NCW slams khap panchayats for imposing customs on young couples
[]


AG appears for Grand Masti makers, invites Bar ire
[]


Briefly Region: 'Gunda tax'' in next session
[]


Senior journalist killed in Kangra road accident
[]


Capt demands probe into Army panel report
[]


Hooda stakes claim on Chandigarh
[]


Man found murdered in Rohtak
[]


In Faridkot, Cong vs SAD over kabbadi tourney
[]


Women to make mark in highest motorsport rally
[]


Modi will draw blank in Himachal, says Virbhadra
[]


Olive branch likely for ex-MP
[]


In Chandigarh to review election plans, Rajnath invokes Vajpayee
[]


BJP apologises to SAD for Sidhu''s remarks against govt
[]


Tie-up with INLD, HJC on Rajnath table today
[]


Wait for monthly pension of Rs 250 gets longer
[]


Haryana khaps blame govt for honour killings
[]


No time for 'Jain saab''
[]


Hundreds of crores and many drainage projects later, Malwa still waterlogged
[]


Amritsar, Patiala to get modern cancer treatment centres: CM
[]


...but, 'statistics'' show power-starved Punjab yet to exploit renewable energy sources
[]


CM claims state will be power surplus by year end
[]


Minister''s green promise for Shimla: Golf carts on the Mall
[]


Youth Cong padyatra to begin on October 2
[]


Cancer medicines being sold at higher prices, chemist booked
[]


Girl''s mother instigated family to kill: Police
[]


After delays, Punjab pays up dues to CISF
[]


No salary for Adarsh teachers in last 6 months
[]


Nawanshahr gets its 3rd woman DC in a row
[]


SC sets aside life for ex-DSP, gives him 35 years for 7 abductions
[]


HC upholds death to man for killing six of family
[]


Students protest outside jail, 4 held
[]


Notices to Haryana over transport policy
[]


Babus cry foul as Haryana govt 'bends rules for blue-eyed boys''
[]


SC rejects OP Jain''s anticipatory bail plea
[]


Labourer held in Najafgarh for rape and murder of three-year-old girl
[]


In tough times, Haryana to bank on PPP mode for growth
[]


Govt to take over illegal property near Annandale
[]


First phase of Gurgaon Rapid Metro to open on October 2
[]


Rape accused minister resigns
[]


Sidhu meets Shanta in Delhi, puts forward grievances
[]


Don''t ask about Sidhu or Shashi Kant: Badal
[]


Rape victim''s kin, Cong workers protest outside Jalandhar civil hospital
[]


Badal expands atta-dal scheme
[]


Ready to contest Lok Sabha elections from Gurdaspur: Bajwa
[]


Centre has small heart: CM on ambulance row
[]


Centre relents, includes Punjab in PM scheme
[]


LeT bomb expert Tunda taken to native village
[]


Kalia shares surname with accident victim, lawyer says inherit his property
[]


Judge in  dock for 'forged'' leave application
[]


Two ASIs accused of taking bribe to prevent torture in Moga, probe makes no headway
[]


No entry for liquor baron-cum-SAD MLA in Faridkot village
[]


Tender apology for false claims of development: Bajwa to Badal
[]


'After NDA comes to power, UPA leaders will be made accountable for every penny plundered''
[]


Sidhu used to chant my name... what has happened now: Badal
[]


Sukhbir inaugurates another project, sparks another row
[]


Briefly Region: Unhappy with school change, boy commits suicide
[]


Set up police complaint centre in each district:  HC to Punjab, Haryana
[]


Centre clears air on CNG stations
[]


Virbhadra orders probe into Asaram''s ashram
[]


Man shoots at mother four times in Rohtak
[]


Sand mafia attacks cops across Ferozepur, no arrests yet
[]


HC bench halves compensation for 4-yr-old electrocution victim
[]


HP man gets death for stripping, killing parents
[]


Ambala student falls after being hit by cop, truck runs him over
[]


Girl lynched, boy beheaded in 'honour killing'' in Rohtak
[]


Heritage mela: Govt fails to send funds
[]


'CM has admitted that Central funds are helping state''
[]


Briefly Region: Accused''s father attempts suicide
[]


Sukhbir failed to follow protocol: Cong MLA
[]


Shimla green area ban to stay, bill to regulate construction soon
[]


Leaders involved in drug peddling will not be spared; not aware of ex-DGP''s report: Sukhbir
[]


Virbhadra to launch food security scheme on Sept 20
[]


6 pilgrims killed as bus hits tree at Mukerian
[]


Vigilance begins probe against HTC officials
[]


HC slams MLAs for 'putting pressure from all corners''
[]


Praise for Centre irks Badal
[]


For 'attending'' dera meet, SAD''s SGPC member
[]


Army Chief reviews operational readiness
[]


13-year-old girl gangraped
[]


IA resumes flights to HP after 3 months
[]


Man gets 5-year term for trying to rape paramour''s minor daughter
[]


Apna Ghar: CBI charges IO with misconduct
[]


Pulses set to be part of food security scheme in Haryana
[]


Stalked, father hit, Kaithal teenager had had enough
[]


Jain to continue as warehousing corporation chief: Govt tells HC
[]


Sidhu hits back: 'Sukhbir personally inaugurated all Amritsar projects''
[]


Missing student''s body found, locals protest inaction
[]


HC takes suo motu notice of ex-DGP''s drug mafia claims
[]


Badal slams Centre''s 'unrealistic'' conditions
[]


3 killed, 60 hurt as storm wreaks havoc in states, UT
[]


Telecom firms complain to ADGP
[]


Chandigarh confidential: Buzz attack
[]


Badal failed to provide financial, legal aid to Kutch farmers: NCM
[]


Sukhbir rubbishes Sidhu''s charges, says nothing to hide
[]


PM gives Badal patient hearing, calls him to Delhi
[]


'KLF sleeper cell'' busted, three held
[]


Briefly Region: Punjab hospitals get waste system
[]


Ludhiana jail prisoners turn bakers
[]


NRI body to Khurshid: Help Indians abroad get passports
[]


Why is Nitish silent on Yasin arrest
[]


IOC polls has IOA jittery
[]


Why assets case is important for Jaya
[]


Despite UPA''s Bill, 'food security'' to remain a pipedream
[]


Missy, not one to miss out on life
[]


Sidhu all over, just not here
[]


Discordant notes over concert
[]


Sreejesh blows hot and cold
[]


'Disturbed Areas' claim on shaky ground in Gujarat
[]


The lights are on butnobody''s in
[]


Why two bypoll results add up to a lot in Karnataka
[]


As Arsene sows, so do Arsenal reap
[]


RBI proves interest rates are a sideshow
[]


Grey areas in anti-Naxal operations
[]


Smith and Jadeja: Two of a kind
[]


VHP yatra ban: Wheels within wheels
[]


Look at Re REER for its real value
[]


Why Saina, Jwala don't get along
[]


LS redux? Mizoram's 2-day session
[]


Suresh Raina, an unlikely bowling trump card
[]


Tribal panel another poll vault by Cong
[]


How falling rupee takes its toll
[]


No post for Bangalore's Metro Man
[]


Two issues, two cases made out by Centre
[]


La same old Liga story
[]


India show big-stage fright, again
[]


Nitish down, BJP hits where it hurts
[]


Public sector banks pay for the rupee war
[]


Games people play for Awards
[]


Action needed from Omar, not just words
[]


Downed by friendly fire
[]


Dual degree nod opens a new chapter
[]


Rajasthan, a country for old men
[]


Floating batsmen, all at sea
[]


Confident confessions
[]


Vacant seats show ignored benchmarks
[]


Badminton's wind of change
[]


Tracking states on mobiles
[]


PV Sindhu shows how to tame the Dragon
[]


Gujarat loser in vitiated lokayukta tussle
[]


Rafa untaped, unplugged
[]


Why no one is afraid of Bimal Gurung
[]


CIL disinvestment: Unions a divided lot
[]


SL's future is not what it used to be
[]


LoC: Time India took a firm stand
[]


Need to nurture this precious talent
[]


Food security Bill: Separating wheat from chaff
[]


Lin-Lee rivalry heats up
[]


No malice in benching Parvez Rasool
[]


AIIMS quota order by SC lays down merit line
[]


The GM crop indecision will cost India dear
[]


Men have failed the machine
[]


Lesson on how not to industrialise in tribal areas
[]


Gold medal is fine, but snooker needs pro wins
[]


For now, Mamata rides populism to victory
[]


Don't count Dortmund out just yet
[]


Why Cong''s Telangana call had to come
[]


Testing time for Kenyan athletes
[]


You can''t be serious, Ecclestone
[]


In row between Punjab, Haryana, lots in a name
[]


BCCI: More Qs than As
[]


What PNB''s and Lanco''s problems tell us
[]


India-China border: The folly
[]


In a slowdown, other income boosts topline
[]


A Rohit ton with little mass
[]


A case of the imploding BJP in Delhi
[]


Man of the hour, year
[]


Bihar on the boil, conspiracy theory cooking
[]


IBL talks up buck, loses bang
[]


Lost in translation, twice over
[]


AIBA's pro fixation is hurting boxers
[]


Liquidity squeeze for volatile rupee
[]


Modi a hit in Advani base in Pune
[]


Moscow, a stopover for relay squad
[]


Wayne Rooney, an outsider at Manchester United
[]


Out of sync with cricket's business
[]


Monitors but no checks in midday meal chain
[]


Attracting foreign investment
[]


NBA pitch misses team connect
[]


Turkish delight, Rajasthan serving
[]


A fan letter to cricket''s star comeback man
[]


RBI''s right response to the wrong cause
[]


The drug ban misadventure
[]


Sprinting nation slips
[]


Mumbai''s skewed encounter record
[]


Time to restore subsidy, mend ties
[]


Season starts now for Moyes
[]


Ill-prepared JEE fails in first test
[]


A method to Hughes' madness
[]


Shiva Thapa lands one for Indian boxing
[]


Naxal convictions: A case again to revisit Act
[]


Sangli changes Cong-NCP equations
[]


Ireland deserve better
[]


The rupee tempest scuttles fiscal math
[]


In Bihar, BJP can't lose sight of perspective
[]


The question of ultra mega steel plants
[]


Food Bill: A lot on Cong's plate
[]


Survival of the fittest
[]


BJP''s temple gamble a Cong opportunity
[]


China on track: Work in progress
[]


On hot run, Bartoli stays 'cool'
[]


Early ART holds promise but a few  concerns remain
[]


Car cos rejig market prioritisation
[]


Faltering in home stretch
[]


When parties forsook people
[]


Telangana: Either way, UPA has little to gain now
[]


Ashes mercury rises as Aussies show spark
[]


Jiah suicide case: Mumbai Police in a spot
[]


Ups and downs of weight-watchers
[]


Govt must not ignore hurdles in DBT race
[]


Financiers look at becoming bankers
[]


End of the road for old fox?
[]


Uttarakhand: The state failed at every level
[]


Minimum Tests bar set too low
[]


Water law: Govt must get states on board
[]


Casillas shows class
[]


A rivalry''s epitaph
[]


Who will bell the CAD?
[]


Questions over PMRDF 'Naxal links'
[]


Desperation of Cong showing in Jharkhand
[]


Tapping into small investors'' savings
[]


Do not play numbers game over the dead
[]


Confusion coming in way of truth
[]


With new coach, Aus find home comfort
[]


Poll heat on, rise of the sons in MP
[]


John Kerry: The problem, the opportunity
[]


Poor footwork on court
[]


Sikh politics to fore in Delhi, Cong, BJP in a spot
[]


'Full' credit to Bhuvneshwar Kumar
[]


'Open'' Chandy needs to lift veil
[]


Neymar''s test will be with Barca
[]


Cong fancies its chances in new Bihar equations
[]


Ben Bernanke's call
[]


The ugly side of chess
[]


Awaiting the arrival of Jet-Etihad, and more flights abroad
[]


The proxy Modi vs Rahul battle begins in UP
[]


Losing the plot
[]


I-League: Cutting costs or corners?
[]


BJP needs to think beyond, and ahead, in Bihar
[]


Dark side of Eng''s shiny image
[]


Modi's exit will not slow GST
[]


Despite change, nothing changes
[]


FS choice chance for Prime Minister to send a message
[]


Coaches miss the gravy train
[]


Declining rupee, difficult economy
[]


The politics of special status
[]


Wanted: Men to guard goal
[]


Waiting for Fed to talk up sentiment
[]


Another lost battle on police reforms
[]


Pairs fail to match solo acts
[]


Pawar's much undone about nothing
[]


Action must now follow resolve to rein in Naxalites
[]


Board goes after the easy targets
[]


Narendra Modi vs Rahul Gandhi fight gets real
[]


Is Serena greatest of all time?
[]


When government pushes growth
[]


A step backward to move forward
[]


Why Bolt won't sweat over loss
[]


Nitish Kumar has his back to the wall
[]


When team owners turn punters
[]


All worked up over gold
[]


Hockey transfers: No checks, balances
[]


Tragedy and farce
[]


Weight off archers'' shoulders
[]


Popularity contest
[]


The games politicians play
[]


New rules could make CT run-fest
[]


It's time for bottom fishing
[]


Time HRD came up with a reform blueprint
[]


The religious angle in Kerala Cong infighting
[]


Could polls trigger spending push?
[]


'Minimum Tests' is a half-measure
[]


Indira model, Rahul mould
[]


Wrestling gains a hold
[]


Probe 'graft', don't go after memorials
[]


Dhoni must move up the order
[]


Skipper M S Dhoni on mute adds to crisis
[]


No consensus on rally ban
[]


MI find Wright way
[]


Police must account for Malegaon probe
[]


Cover-up, not quite clean-up
[]


A crown of thorns
[]


Sonia Gandhi's revised narrative on Naxalism
[]


A chip on Dale, Jimmy stakes claim
[]


Bajwa takes hit but can bounce back
[]


Did the ICC jump the gun with Rauf?
[]


Row apart, Rly seeks to stay on track
[]


The words count more than  the language
[]


Tyres blown out of proportion
[]


Advani's pro-found aggression
[]


The true value of compensation
[]


The Vodafone puzzle
[]


Wrestling faces tough final bout
[]


Golden chance for Amit Shah and Varun
[]


Clean-up should be top-down
[]


Will Sebi enforce higher public float?
[]


In Kerala, there's no Opposition
[]


'Away from reality' TV
[]


Time India stated red lines to China
[]


Airlines unbound, fliers in a bind?
[]


In Maya Kodnani  U-turn, Narendra Modi white flag to right wing
[]


IOA needs to change attitude
[]


Should Ajmal be denied parathas?
[]


NPS trumps EPF in returns game
[]


Rotavac could be just what the doctor ordered
[]


Militants gun down six people in Pakistan
[]


Israel tests new Arrow missile interceptor-ministry
[]


Pistorius detective facing attempted murder charges
[]


More than 30 Syrians killed in Hama suicide blast: NGO
[]


News of Oscar Pistorius arrest leaves many in disbelief
[]


Prisoner X: Lawyer I saw no signs that he was going to kill himself
[]


Israel rattled by death of 'secret' Australian prisoner: Channel
[]


Meet modern day Vampire who stabs and bites people to satisfy his blood thirst
[]


Sara Netanyahu's fashion faux-pas sparks criticism
[]


Saudi varsity students develops drone
[]


French troops clash with Islamists in 'real war' to win back north
[]


French troops may start leaving Mali in March
[]


Shoe thrown at Iranian president Ahmadinejad in Egypt
[]


Suicide bomber kills 4 while 21 injured  - police
[]


Iran hedges on nuclear talks with six powers or US
[]


Durex introduces emergency condom delivery service in Dubai
[]


Passenger trains collide in South Africa, 20 injured
[]


Obama's Defence Secy nominee adopts hard line on Iran
[]


Stuck with an Omani roof for 30 yrs, Indian dies without setting eyes on motherland
[]


PLO condemns Gaza university female 'dress code'' decision
[]


Egypt president declares emergency after clashes kill dozens
[]


Jordanians in new parliament vote boycotted by Islamists
[]


Election setback for Benjamin Netanyahu, Yair Lapid emerges kingmaker
[]


Most weapons used by al-Qaeda terrorists in Algeria hostage attack came from Libya
[]


Algeria: 7 hostages, 11 militants dead after raid
[]


Foreigners still trapped in Sahara hostage crisis
[]


Breakthrough in crisis: 100 of 132 foreign hostages freed
[]


French, Malian forces retake town seized by Islamists
[]


Abduction bears the signature of jihadi Prince Belmokhtar
[]


Egyptian court sentences a mother and seven children to 15 yrs jail for converting back to Christianity
[]


France in 'direct combat' in Mali within hours
[]


Somali journalist arrested after story on rape
[]


Explosions kill 83 at Syrian university
[]


Five killed as Egypt train carrying troops derails: ministry
[]


Court overturns Mubarak life term, orders retrial
[]


Saudi king grants women seats on advisory council for first time
[]


Iraq shuts Jordan border crossing over Sunni protests
[]


US defence contractor pays $5 mn to Iraqis over Abu Ghraib prison abuse
[]


Dubai ruler among most followed leaders on Twitter, Barack Obama tops list
[]


90-yr-old Saudi marries 15-yr-old girl, sparks condemnation
[]


Shiites flood Iraq shrine city for mourning rituals
[]


US concerned about restrictions on media freedom in Egypt
[]


North-south corridor key to bilateral relations, says Iran
[]


Assad planes bomb gas station near Damascus, 30 killed
[]


Pakistan frees four more 'senior'' Afghan Taliban prisoners
[]


Nelson Mandela released from the hospital
[]


Protest at Central Africa French embassy turns violent
[]


Iran rejects interference accusations by Gulf states
[]


Head of Syrian military police defects
[]


Egypt constitution passes with 63.8 pc vote: Poll panel
[]


South Africa pair 'borrow' corpse in insurance scam
[]


Tougher EU sanctions against Iran come into force
[]


Fears of election violence to dent Kenya tourism
[]


Israeli soldiers go on rampage, assault two cameramen
[]


Frail Nelson Mandela's 'sparkle fading', says wife Graca Machel
[]


Mali PM Cheick Modibo Diarra arrested at home by soldiers
[]


1 million rich Gulf families own wealth worth $1.2 trillion: Report
[]


Indian worker kills self in first Dubai Metro suicide case
[]


Iran tells US to 'recount' drones
[]


Egypt's highest court joins judicial rebellion against Morsi
[]


Islamists to rally behind Mursi as Egypt's rifts widen
[]


Palestine wins de facto UN recognition of sovereign state
[]


Kuwait could ban 100,000 from travel over dues -paper
[]


Farm murders highlight apartheid's toxic legacy
[]


UN set to recognise Palestinian state despite US, Israel threats
[]


Sanctions side-effect: Iran's food system hit
[]


In Israel, some rebel against circumcision
[]


7 Egyptian Christians sentenced to death for anti-Islam film
[]


Egypt clashes as President Morsi defends his new powers
[]


Hamas cries victory; truce with Israel holds
[]


Israel, Hamas maintain ceasefire
[]


Muslims cry outrage as Paris Hilton opens store in holy Mecca
[]


Gaza: Israel, Hamas agree to Egypt-brokered ceasefire
[]


Israeli strike hits building housing AFP Gaza office
[]


Israel raids kill 31 in Gaza as truce efforts intensify
[]


Israeli strike hits Gaza media building, several hurt
[]


47 nursery school children killed in Egypt bus crash
[]


Gaza strikes: Israeli planes strike office of Hamas PM
[]


Israel-Hamas: a clash waiting to happen
[]


Israel to hold fire in Egypt premier's Gaza visit
[]


Signs mount of possible Israeli invasion of Gaza
[]


Israeli military, Gaza militants trade fire
[]


Afghan women learn literacy through mobile phones
[]


Female bodyguard of Muammar Gaddafi killed in Egypt
[]


Saudi man gets 80 lashes in front of mall for harassing women
[]


Kuwait arrests two royals over critical tweets
[]


Child rapes, killings terrify parents in Iraq
[]


Iran president hits out at 'capitalist' US elections
[]


Yasser Arafat's remains to be exhumed
[]


Bangla brothers end inheritance tussle with Mecca embrace
[]


Israel Army, Mossad 'halted Iran attack alert' from Netanyahu, Barak
[]


Furious Pakistani man stormed private hospital, kills Indian doctor
[]


Cost of playing Cost of playing east Africa oil game on the riseon the rise
[]


Jilted Africa cool to US vote after Obama fever fades
[]


Taj Mahal's replica in Dubai to be four times its size
[]


Celebratory gunfire at Saudi wedding cuts cable, 23 electrocuted
[]


Unmarried Pak-Indian couple in dock for kissing, cuddling in Dubai
[]


Bosnian man walks 5,650 km on pilgrimage to Mecca
[]


Xinjiang militants in Syria to take part in civil war: report
[]


S Africa's Zuma drops lawsuit over rape cartoon
[]


Muslim pilgrims rush to complete final Haj rituals
[]


Haj pilgrims stone the Satan, pray for forgiveness
[]


Israel navy takes over Gaza-bound ship Estelle
[]


6 Indian UN peacekeepers wounded in ambush in Congo
[]


Gunmen kill 20 at mosque in northern Nigeria
[]


Rights activists beaten and raped in Iran, says UN
[]


UN official: Islamists in Mali are targeting women
[]


Gaddafi son 'will be hanged in Libya', defence tells ICC
[]


Two Bahrainis jailed after chopping off Briton's fingers
[]


Libya parliament removes newly-elected PM from post
[]


Turkey warns Syria more strikes would be fatal mistake
[]


Iranian Gov accountable for the state of country: Hillary Clinton
[]


Bombers strike Aleppo, 48 dead
[]


Poster contest in Egypt to remember Mahatma Gandhi's teachings
[]


Ahmadinejad's cameraman defects, seeks US asylum
[]


Assad 'sold out fellow tyrant Gaddafi in act of self-preservation'
[]


Iran says it reserves right to retaliate if attacked
[]


Israel PM Netanyahu draws his 'red line' for Iran
[]


Ahmadinejad calls for end to US 'bullying'', Morsi Syrian civil war
[]


Brazil court orders YouTube to remove anti-Islam film
[]


Egypt President Morsi wants free speech linked to responsibility
[]


Siemens denies selling Iran 'explosive-laden'' equipment for nuke programme
[]


UN chief warns Iran's Ahmadinejad on fiery rhetoric
[]


Google to block Jordan links to anti-Islam film
[]


Yogi Adityanath hails IAF strike in Pakistan
['Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.', 'CM Yogi was in Etah to inaugurate 34 government projects and lay the foundation stones of 40 other government projects worth Rs 345 crore, including a medical college in Etah, a polytechnic college, solar lights and power substations projects.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


CRPF jawan’s kin happy as IAF strikes in Pak
['Hours after a strike group of Indian Air Force bombed training camps of Jaish-e-Mohammad in Pakistan occupied Kashmir and beyond, family of slain CRPF jawan killed in Pulwama attack, expressed their happiness for taking revenge of jawan deaths.', 'On Feb 14, Koushal Kumar Rawat (48) of 115 battalion CRPF was among the 40 jawans who were killed in the suicide attack on the paramilitary convoy in Pulwama.', 'Celebrations spread across various districts of Uttar Pradesh.', "On February 14, Koushal Kumar Rawat (48) of 115 battalion CRPF was among the 40 jawans who were killed in the suicide attack on the paramilitary convoy in Pulwama. Slain Rawat hailed from Keharai village under Tajganj police jurisdiction in UP's Agra district - though his family was settled in Gurugram.", 'In the early hours of Tuesday, Indian Air Force jets targeted one of the biggest terror camps of Jaish-e-Mohammed in a "non-military", "pre-emptive" air strike in Pakistan\'s Balakot, the government said.', 'Meanwhile, celebration spread across various districts of Uttar Pradesh including Agra, Mathura, Firozabad, Kasganj, Aligarh, with locals bursting crackers and sharing sweets.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


AMU student shot at by unknown assailants
['According to police, BA second year student Mohammad Gulzar was coming back to the university with his friend after attending a coaching class when three bike-borne unidentified persons fired at him.', 'This is the second such incident in the city in the past 48 hours. On Saturday night, a 25-year-old MBA student of Al-Barkaat institute was allegedly shot dead at the same place.', 'According to police, BA second year student Mohammad Gulzar was coming back to the university with his friend after attending a coaching class when three bike-borne unidentified persons fired at him.', 'He was immediately rushed to the medical college with the help of local residents. According to doctors, his condition is stable now, but he is still under observation. Gulzar hails from Bihar and stays at Sir Syed hostel of the varsity.', 'Aligarh SP city Abhishek said that the bike-borne youths stopped Gulzar when he was coming back to the university around 10 pm and after a brief argument, the accused fired at him. The SP said Gulzar sustained a bullet injury on right side of his neck.', 'He said the matter is being inquired and the accused will be arrested soon.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


PM's Sangam dip won't wash his sins, says Maya
['BSP chief Mayawati on Monday questioned PM Narendra Modi\'s \'shahi dip\' at Kumbh, asking whether it will be sufficient to "wash all sins of reneging poll promises, treachery and other state wrongs".', 'File photo of BSP chief Mayawati.', 'She also criticised the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme launched on Sunday, saying that the government must differentiate between farmers and landless labourers. "This scheme of Rs 500 per month may be useful for labourers but is not helpful for farmers who want remunerative price for their produce, which the BJP government has failed to ensure. The Central government not only has half-baked information about agriculture sector but its understanding is also very immature," she said.', 'Soon after the scheme was launched, Mayawati had called it an affront to farmers, adding that giving Rs 17 per day to a farmer who wanted reasonable price for his crop.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Shah to launch BJP campaign from UP village
["BJP will kick off its party campaign, 'Kamal Deep Abhiyan' in the state on Tuesday in which party workers would light up nearly 2 crore earthen lamps in the homes of beneficiaries of various government schemes.", 'File photo of Amit Shah.', "LUCKNOW: BJP will kick off its party campaign, 'Kamal Deep Abhiyan' in the state on Tuesday in which party workers would light up nearly 2 crore earthen lamps in the homes of beneficiaries of various government schemes.", 'Shah will reach Garautha village, which is surrounded by rivers from three sides, by a boat at around 5pm and hold a public meeting before lighting up a lamp in a house. Shah will be accompanied by Union minister Manoj Sinha, who is MP from Ghazipur.', "Sinha's representative in Ghazipur, Sunil Singh said that all the preparations for the programme have been completed. He said that there are nearly 300 families in the village out of which around 200 have been given electricity connection.", 'All BJP MLAs and MPs will participate in the campaign in their respective constituencies.', 'Party sources said that all district presidents have been asked to reach out to the beneficiaries of schemes like Ujjwala (envisaging free gas connection), Saubhagya (free electricity connection) and PM Awas Yojana.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Cong to release candidates' list in Mar 1st week
['LUKCNOW: Even as SP and BSP candidates have started working on their seats, the grand old party will take another week or so to finalise the list of candidates.', 'He said candidature for various seats in UP was discussed in detail but the final decision rests with the party president.', 'Anupriya faction will hold Congress’s hand are also rife.', 'The third category is of seats where Congress stood third or fourth in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.', 'Top leaders including PL Punia, Jitin Prasada and RPN Singh, however, gave the meeting a miss.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Woman, two daughters found dead in their bathroom
['Deceased Ritu Dhupad (38), and her two daughters Kayara (3) and Sachika (6).', 'AGRA: A 38-year-old woman and her two daughters aged three and six years were found dead under suspicious circumstances in a locked bathroom at their residence in upscale Pandav Nagar locality on Sunday night.', 'The victims have been identified as Ritu Dhupad (38), and her daughters Kayara (3) and Sachika (6). Ritu’s husband Rohit has a garment store at Jaipur House and her parents-in-law Dr Navin Dhupad and Vimla run a drugstore. The bodies were handed over to the family after autopsy.', 'The incident came to light when Ritu’s mother Rajrani called Rohit around 7pm to inform him that his wife was not responding to her calls. Following which, Rohit, too, made calls to Ritu over her mobile phone, but when the calls went unanswered, he rushed to his house.', 'Rohit said Kayara was recently admitted to a convent school and had celebrated her fourth birthday on February 27, and her elder sister Sachika was in grade one.', 'After the incident, Shahganj police, superintendent of police (city) and Lohamandi circle officer, along with a forensic team visited the spot.', 'No compliant was lodged by the family till filing of this report. Police said they would question Rohit and other family members after the cremations.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


'Produce woman 'detained' in Deoria shelter home'
['File photo of Allahabad high court.', 'In his petition, the petitioner took the plea that one of the women, who was allegedly victim of sexual harassment at Deoria shelter home, is his wife and is also a major. Hence, she cannot be detained indefinitely during the investigation of case and, therefore, should be set free by the authorities concerned. Having heard claims of the petitioner, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the SIT officers to produce the detained woman before it on February 27, the next date of hearing.', 'On August 5, 2018, the police had raided the Deoria shelter home after a minor girl escaped from the home and informed the police about the horrific sexual harassment its inmates allegedly faced. In the raid, police had rescued 24 inmates and arrested shelter home manager Girija Tripathi, her husband Mohan Tripathi and daughters Kanchan Lata Tripathi and Kanak Lata Tripathi.', 'Subsequently, on August 8, 2018, the high court had taken suo motu cognizance of reports published in newspapers in connection with the Deoria shelter home and said it would monitor investigation into the alleged sex racket being run from the home. Later, the victims were sent to various safe places under the court’s direction.', 'The high court had passed the order on the petition on February 22.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Ex-servant planned robbery for revenge
['Yadav’s trusted servant Vijay, who has been working there for 25 years. The woman convinced Vijay to hire a member of their gang, Mukesh, as a cook in the Yadav household.', 'Over three months, Mukesh worked as an informer of Ajay. On February 18, he alerted Ajay that all family members, except Yadav and his daughter, had gone out of station. On Ajay’s directions, the gang committed the dacoity. To show that Mukesh is innocent, the gang members pointed a gun at him and made him administer a drug through injection to sedate Yadav and his daughter. However, Mukesh became a prime suspect as he fled the house after the dacoity.', 'SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said Ajay and his wife were added to the list of suspects after police came to know he had been sacked for stealing some time ago. Mobile phones of all three suspects were put on surveillance.', 'Their phones were switched off till Sunday when Mukesh called a washerman who lives near Yadav’s house to know about police vigilance in the area.', 'Police recovered Rs 4.75 lakh which the gang got from the sale of looted ornaments.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Defaulters get 20 per cent rebate and waiver
['According to LMC records, there are around 5 lakh taxable properties which have not paid house/property tax since last six years.', 'In a bizarre move, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has introduced a one-time settlement scheme which gives a tax defaulter advantage over the honest tax payer. There are around 50 lakh taxable properties in the city, of which around 45 lakh pay due taxes on time. However, LMC has given 20% discount to defaulters, besides waiving of interest on the principal amount charged as fine, whereas an honest tax payer gets only 10%. A settlement scheme should encourage defaulters to pay pending dues, but should not be unjust to those who meet deadline. In fact, LMC should give a bigger discount for timely payments to motivate people and instead of heavy discount defaulters who cannot pay entire sum in one go, can be given option of easy monthly instalments.', 'They include around 4.8 lakh houses, 19,092 shops, 324 educational institutes and hostels and 1,338 government buildings. Total tax amount due from all these properties is around Rs 790 crore. Poor tax collections resulted in less revenue in past few years. For instance, against an estimated Rs 280 crore in 2016-17, LMC received Rs 192 crore, which further fell to Rs 178 crore in 2017-18 and then to Rs 174 crore in 2018-19.', 'When asked that such a scheme would amount to injustice to honest tax payers who pay up regularly on time, he said that we already give them 10% discount.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'A rocking college fest in Lucknow!', 'A rocking college fest in Lucknow!']


SP, BSP extend their pre-poll alliance to MP, Ukd
['Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party have decided to extend their UP pre-poll alliance and announced on Mon...', 'The announcement once again made BSP’s upper hand evident in alliance as SP settled for just three of 29 seats in MP and only one of the five in Uttarakhand, leaving all others for BSP.', 'SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati issued a joint press release on Monday, announcing the alliance and division of seats. The release was also tweeted by Mayawati.', 'The development is being seen as a setback for Congress as by contesting all seats in MP, the alliance will hurt prospects of the grand old party which has been aiming to repeat its recent state victory in Lok Sabha polls also.', 'In MP, SP will field its candidates from Balaghat, Tikamgarh and Khajuraho while in Uttarakhand, it has got Pauri Garhwal. The remaining will be contested by BSP which aims to increase its vote share in coming elections.', 'In 2014, SP had contested 11 seats in MP and got 0.75% votes, a sharp fall from 2009 elections where its vote share had been 2.83% after contesting 18 seats. In 2014, all 11 SP candidates had lost their deposits. Similarly, BSP’s performance in MP has also been slipping. In 2014, it got 3.80% votes after polling 5.85% in 2009 and failed to open score. In 2009, BSP had won the Rewa seat. In Uttarakhand, BSP had polled 2.9% votes in 2014 but failed to win.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'A rocking college fest in Lucknow!', 'A rocking college fest in Lucknow!']


Rlys launches new dashboard named Rail Drishti
['A new dashboard, named Rail Drishti, has been launched by the Indian Railways. The new passenger oriented dashboard, which serves multiple users from booking to spotting the train or the booked freight or kitchen services, was launched by the Minister of Railways & Coal, Piyush Goyal at Delhi, on Monday.', 'Goyal says: To make people of India aware of the projects going on in Railways, Rail Drishti Dashboard has been launched.', 'The customer or railway passenger will get an exposure through this dashboard to the multifaceted transformation underway in Indian Railways across the country.', 'This dashboard can be accessed using a desktop/laptop or a mobile device such as a phone or tablet and the url of the dashboard is “raildrishti.cris.org.in”.', 'CPRO further said that the available information under the dashboard has been categorized under 15 user friendly sections. The headings include ‘at a glance’ wherein passenger reservation, unreserved ticketing, freight earnings and freight loading for different periods are displayed. Information on any station on Indian Railways can be viewed in this tab.', 'Likewise, under the heading services, passengers can view and avail the status of any digital service like PNR enquiry, ODC application enquiry, complaint enquiry, tender enquiry, shramik enquiry and freight related enquiries. For citizen’s convenience links to eight important railway websites are also made available here.', 'Under trains on run, passengers can now track any train on the Indian Railways network. Under IRCTC kitchens, the dashboard provides a facility to view live feeds from the cameras installed in various IRCTC base kitchens. Passengers can now view how the food being served to them in trains is being cooked and packed.', 'Similarly, there are headings like grievances, achievements, station images, heritage, bills etc, said the CPRO.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Kinnar akhara - a hub of artists at Kumbh mela
['Moreover, many of these artists, especially the eminent international lensmen, are getting the chance to profiling the community and watch them in different moods and in their new avatar i.e. as religious seers.', 'Likewise, Benoit Feron of Belgium, is a lawyer back in his city but here he was at the akhara, clicking photos and meeting the member of the kinnar community with the same warmth as if he had been among them since several years.', 'Similarly, Christopher Singh is a practicing artist born and based in New Zealand with residencies in China and during his stay at the Kinnar Art Village, he has merged his practice with recyclable materials to create and reuse many of the discarded artefacts and waste distributed amongst Kumbh Mela.', 'Not far from his tent was that of Nadia Zoubenko, a multimedia artist based in Israel. Participating in the art village for Kinnar Akhara, she was seen using soil, acrylic, natural fibers, plaster and many more tools to craft her vision. “My works capture scenes from the Mughal era, the life of ancient kinnars, existing within the space of kings and harems, playful as entertainers, artists and sex workers. These works bring visibility to the kinnar community from times long before”, she said.', 'The akhara has also given platform to local talent like Shubhangi Chaurasia, a BFA student. “For me, art is an energy within us along with emotions which bust out on canvas here in the Kinna art village, the culture and atmosphere we get is totally liberating towards art and ourselves”.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Etah: 100 held in 24 hrs ahead of Yogi's visit
["Ahead of chief minister Yogi Adityanath's visit in the district, Etah police arrested over 100 men in 24 hours. Those arrested included persons against whom courts had issued warrants or were wanted by Etah police.", 'Those arrested included persons against whom courts had issued warrants or were wanted by Etah police.', 'After holding a meeting with CO and SHO of various police jurisdiction in Etah on Saturday, superintendent of police Swapnil Mamgain conducted an operation - pegged as ‘dastak’ - to nab the accused.', 'Anees of Sishgrand of Marhara police jurisdiction - carrying Rs 5,000 reward - was wanted in a gangster case.', 'On Monday, all the nabbed accused were sent to jail.', 'According to the district administration, Adityanath is set to visit the district to lay the foundation stone of district hospital on Etah-Kasganj Road.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


UP honour killing: Woman shot dead by brother
['Representative image.', 'Dhyani was shot dead by Adesh Kumar (25) in Bopada village after her family learnt about her affair with a man from a different caste, Station House Officer (SHO) Sanjiv Kumar said.', "The girl's family came to know about the relationship when around four days ago the couple lodged a police complaint of harassment in a restaurant by four men, he said.", 'Police have arrested Adesh Kumar and a case of murder has been registered, the officer said.', "The pistol used in the crime has also been recovered from the accused and Dhyani's body has been sent for post-mortem, the officer added.", 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Boy kidnapped in Ballia for his sister as ransom
['Representative image.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Vande Bharat hit by stones near Auraiya station
['Express, India’s fastest train, was damaged after flying ballast hit the driver’s screen and some coach windows while it was travelling from Varanasi to New Delhi at about 7:45pm on Saturday.', 'Rajdhani was cruising at 90kmph, while Vande Bharat was travelling at 116 kmph. After the incident, Vande Bharat continued its journey with the broken windowpanes, while the Rajdhani halted for 11 minutes before leaving for Kanpur. On Sunday morning, Vande Bharat left New Delhi for Varanasi at its scheduled time.', 'The train had started commercial operations on February 17. Earlier on February 20, a stone was hurled at Vande Bharat, damaging the windowpane of C2 coach while the train was heading for Varanasi. On its return journey to Delhi, the train ran over a bull between Bharthana and Ekdil stations of Etawah district. Earlier this month, miscreants had pelted stones at the train near Sadar area in Delhi while it was on its way to New Delhi station to begin a trial run to Prayagraj. A window of a coach was damaged in that incident. On December 20, 2018, during the last leg of the final trial run on the stretch between Delhi and Agra stations, miscreants had pelted stones at the train in Mathura, breaking a windowpane.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.']


Woman, daughters found dead inside bathroom
['Deceased Ritu Dhupad (38), and her two daughters Kayara (3) and Sachika (6).', 'After the incident, Shahganj police along with SP city and CO Lohamandi reached the spot.', 'Youngest among two siblings, Kayara, was recently admitted in convent school and was to celebrate her fourth birthday on February 27. Her elder sister Sachika was a student of Class 1.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


Lucknow: VIP vehicles get free pass at malls
['LUCKNOW: For security personnel in parking lots of malls, it is a choice between doing their job and keeping it. While rules do not allow anyone to park vehicles at will on mall premises, VIPs are exceptions at such places.', 'While common people pay parking charges—the amount even inflates on weekends and holidays—to pay and park their cars in parking lots, no such restrictions are enforced for vehicles belonging to police, government or Army officers or judges, all of whom are given a free passage by mall authorities to park on their premises anywhere they want.', 'In a reality check in top five malls of the city, TOI found that the preferential treatment given to VIPs is not just by mall authorities but also by police officials on duty.', 'Many cars with such ‘VIP’ stickers pasted on the front and rear windshields were parked outside malls in a haphazard manner, leading to traffic jams. Many others were driven into the premises without being stopped or without being directed to the designated parking area.', 'Even at places where traffic violations were being checked actively, VIP vehicles were left out of the process while challans were issued for other vehicles.', 'When TOI asked guards at malls about the unfair system, most of them remained tight-lipped. Some said they had orders from seniors and others admitted to deliberately ignoring violations by VIPs because they did not want to put their job at risk.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!']


PM Modi takes a dip, attends aarti at Kumbh
["After taking the dip, Modi dressed in an orange 'kurta' and wrapped in a saffron shawl, participated in Ganga and Triveni 'pujan' and 'aarti', performed by a group of priests on the banks of the Sangam amidst chanting of 'mantras' and 'shlokas'. He also participated in other rituals.", 'The PM also congratulated the UP government for making Kumbh a successful event and highlighted the development work being carried out in the city, including construction of civic enclave, in a record time and setting up of STP units.', 'Earlier, the Prime Minister was welcomed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other officials at DPS helipad. From the helipad, Modi went directly to the Sangam. Meanwhile, " Ma Gange ke kehne par apki seva mai laga hua hoon (I am serving you all on the call of Ma Gange)," said Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing a gathering of sanitary workers and boatmen.', 'Modi said that over 22 crore devotees have already visited Kumbh, which has become a combination of \'aastha\' (devotion) and technology. "This Kumbh will also be remembered as digital Kumbh," he said.', 'Refrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.', 'Be the first one to review.', 'How peas (MATAR) can help you lose weight!', 'Celebration galore at this golden wedding anniversary in Prayagraj!', 'Here’s what’s attracting the millennials to the Kumbh!', 'Celebration galore at this golden wedding anniversary in Prayagraj!', 'Here’s what’s attracting the millennials to the Kumbh!']


The outsider card
[]


Degrees of irresponsibility
[]


A not so distant state
[]


No 'outsiders'' in Delhi
[]


In need of a rewrite
[]


The Hindutva heartland
[]


Delhi can take the lead
[]


A flashback to victory
[]


Persecuted by law
[]


'Unlike the Congress, the Muslim League failed to create a social and economic programme, or rural-urban alliances''
[]


Kejriwal's waterfront
[]


National Interest: AAP versus VIP
[]


A defining moment
[]


Counting our chickens
[]


The unaccounted
[]


Constricted by law
[]


Meeting point
[]


Overcoming cynicism
[]


Rainbow cities
[]


Transitions, 2013
[]


Beijing bonhomie
[]


Counting on cities
[]


The changeover year
[]


2013: Ideas Expressed
[]


A longing for elsewheres
[]


Not so aam aadmi policy
[]


The Art of the Possible
[]


The march to nowhere
[]


A law against dignity
[]


The unkind cut
[]


Pakistan, 1971
[]


Unfinished business
[]


Return of the repressed
[]


More homework needed
[]


The democratic slide
[]


Facing the future
[]


Politics as unusual
[]


'If an issue of morality is to be decided by majority, then fundamental right has no meaning'
[]


Our Indian Feudal Service
[]


Whose law is it anyway
[]


Silence of the workplace
[]


'Dhoom 3': Are sequels a safe bet?
[]


Dhaka spillover
[]


The safety imperative
[]


A sleepwalking economy
[]


A rough landing
[]


Cereal offenders
[]


A bill that doesn''t fit
[]


Compromise is no crime
[]


I have had 95 partners. I didn't choose all of them: Leander Paes
[]


Help us imagine, Rahulji
[]


Victory, for now
[]


Many a slip
[]


Justice denied
[]


An emerging confidence
[]


'Victory'' in the Valley
[]


Out of 28 seats, Cong will win 20-22 in LS polls in state: Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah
[]


The Mandelas I knew
[]


It's good to lose
[]


Sweet and sour
[]


Left behind
[]


'Sanctions or threats can't take us to Geneva. We were there for a new approach. The world, the region needed this... Terror is a real threat'
[]


India and the Middle East: Delhi begins a re-think
[]


Kambli made poor choices... but Vinod still has some goodwill left
[]


Crooked lines
[]


Signs and wonders
[]


Election and renewal
[]


Overreading the turnout
[]


A different medicine needed
[]


Slippery slope of justice
[]


Don't blink in Bali
[]


The cult of distrust
[]


'People in Delhi are not expecting Modi to come here and govern''
[]


Dhaka deadlock
[]


So that she can speak
[]


Without conviction
[]


The Kayani effect
[]


The Notebook closes
[]


Bracing for Bali
[]


The RandD yield
[]


Washington dissensus
[]


'The opposition to GM crops is not based on science... There is no substantiated case of a health impact, even so much as a headache'
[]


What 2014 won't change
[]


The Constitution project
[]


In bad faith
[]


Apologies aside
[]


Just an opinion
[]


Just an opinion
[]


National Interest: AAP ki adalat
[]


Journalist Becomes the News
[]


Begin at home
[]


Moving the middle
[]


The colour of prejudice
[]


Love from Tokyo
[]


The empty gesture
[]


A question to Modi
[]


If only
[]


Getting real with Hanoi
[]


A sea change
[]


Opinions and anxieties
[]


'We can''t compare cyclone with episodic rainfall... Uttarakhand was not just a Met disaster, but combination of many things''
[]


National Interest: Or else, Modi
[]


A recurring storm
[]


The old familiar
[]


Finding shared ground
[]


Swat hardened
[]


Aizawl resurgence
[]


Trial by taper
[]


'I've never seen evidence of opinion polls influencing voters... making people go with the winner or deciding to back the underdog'
[]


The spirit of Spring
[]


Just a routine poll
[]


Swatting superbugs
[]


Xi''s new moves
[]


'They usurped government land... it is nothing but theft of public property''
[]


National Interest: Conscience and cowardice
[]


Head to Lanka, Mr PM
[]


Leaving it to the pros
[]


Silence speaks more
[]


No clean slate
[]


The Singh doctrine
[]


Bring the Fund down to earth
[]


Why Mars?
[]


I''m sticking with Lou
[]


Polls apart
[]


'Terrorist organisations, terrorists have direct or indirect access to Congress''
[]


Investing in ourselves
[]


National Interest: My Sardar vs yours
[]


Local vs National: The Lanka Test for the BJP
[]


Pakistan''s new normal
[]


How the wheels came off F1
[]


Regions of the mind
[]


The adda winds down
[]


Call of duty
[]


Don''t go for gold
[]


Tried, tested and failed
[]


Divided they stand
[]


'State powers have been taken over by Centre. They are taking over functions in the state as well as concurrent list'
[]


National Interest: The accused
[]


A culture of haters
[]


Respite as opportunity
[]


Fog ahead
[]


Tortured ties
[]


No zero-sum games
[]


Confronting scarcity
[]


End of the party
[]


'Some people in Pak feel China still thinks like it did in '60s, '70s. It has moved on... In recent years, it has only advised good ties with India''
[]


A diplomatic answer
[]


Terror of nothing
[]


The here and Mao
[]


The short of it
[]


Know your tormentor
[]


The quality of greatness
[]


Don't blame it on China
[]


The not so secret agent
[]


Forming new bonds
[]


That girl with attitude
[]


The Yellen promise
[]


Leaning against the Wall
[]


Turning point Phailin
[]


'Young astronomers come up with ideas, but are not able to defend them'
[]


BJP is a deceptive opposition, don't know about the alternative it's providing: Sibal
[]


Since 1989
[]


Strength of a leader
[]


Sachin's next innings
[]


Because it said so
[]


Rollback nations
[]


A narrower field
[]


General vision
[]


AAP and them
[]


Rumour has it
[]


How not to arm a nation
[]


Thinking backwards
[]


Blunt hammer syndrome
[]


Pressure of a button
[]


A Lalu-shaped vacuum
[]


PM to PM
[]


He tried his best
[]


Different strokes
[]


The inheritor as insurgent
[]


The word and the world
[]


National Interest: His Moral Highness
[]


Company and community
[]


Campus terror
[]


'The Lunchbox': No Oscar stopover
[]


The return of Russia
[]


They don''t talk to her
[]


Hidden in plain sight
[]


One cupola at a time
[]


A focus for the RBI
[]


An unsound framework
[]


Irresolute on the world stage
[]


'Dharavi project bhoomi poojan will be done before next election'
[]


End began with loss of respect
[]


Mamata vs the courts
[]


Gold, but not enough glitter
[]


Govt must take call on choppers fast
[]


Maharashtra rape examination norms fall short
[]


Blocking investments
[]


Scholes leaves hole in Utd''s midfield
[]


Jagan Mohan away, his party feels the heat
[]


In search of greener pastures
[]


I-League needs change
[]


Waiting, watching proved fruitful for Cong in Karnataka
[]


Success for cops in Naxal fight in Gadchiroli
[]


Under him, they always scored
[]


Credit squeeze shackles exports
[]


Why CBI should not have shown report to minister
[]


Miller's thriller method
[]


The continuing sorry Sori saga
[]


Base threatened, Jayalalithaa stuns Ramadoss
[]


CT squad, first draft for 2015?
[]


All downhill for Cong in U''khand
[]


Boxing, a family matter
[]


Russia cleans out doping closet
[]


R R Patil as the policing force
[]


Chouhan as the secular one
[]


Part-time ''keeper, too much of a risk
[]


The red sign over Assam
[]


Back at top, Sporting must stay there
[]


Buying into the India story
[]


Badminton presses out the errors
[]


Why SP promise on terror cases is only a promise
[]


A how-to-get-worked-up-during-IPL manual
[]


Raje steals a march in yatra war
[]


Just another meeting
[]


A sprinting Modi vs a crawling BJP
[]


Walking, no more a lonely road
[]


Hanging fire, will FCRA Bill see the light of the day in Budget session?
[]


Kaiser's prophecy proves right
[]


More noise than voice in protests
[]


SC order has opened Pandora's box in Orissa
[]


Checking out China's Gen Next
[]


Method to madness
[]


Strategic imports need foreign policy support
[]


In defence of Luis Suarez
[]


Loose talk is now lose talk in MP
[]


Tackling defensive mindset
[]


Good coal economics
[]


History repeats itself, first as cash, then as a poll scrapped
[]


In football, agents make a killing
[]


This shutdown call sign of new Valley opening
[]


Rajasthan Royals: Out of the box, top of the table
[]


No export targets set for FY''14
[]


Why Kodnani fell out of favour
[]


Nitish's eyes on the other Modi
[]


Serie A losing aura, players
[]


Securing 42 kms, a marathon task
[]


In Karnataka, Congress's Catch 222
[]


The governor with an opinion
[]


Long and short of it
[]


Different strokes
[]


Post-Bhullar, convicts need to relook SC pleas
[]


Killing fields
[]


Ajit Pawar on a wet and slippery slope
[]


Running a club to ground
[]


Four is the upper limit
[]


Ponzi schemes: Familiar plots, different players
[]


Tytler case shows the inequality before law
[]


Travails of spotting T20 trends
[]


Bringing drone to fight against poachers
[]


All square: Be it home or away
[]


Indian economy at inflection point
[]


NHRC's move on Dantewada a welcome step
[]


Clark-Saini, a winning combination
[]


On shaky ground in Thane
[]


A tale of two yatras gone off track
[]


Pistol, weapon of choice
[]


Inclusive Monetary Fund
[]


SC step can go a long way in Manipur
[]


In IPL, freaks fit right in
[]


Daily routines may influence sleep quality, quantity
[]


Lifestyle changes may help prevent half of Alzheimer''s cases
[]


Cleaning the mobile germ warehouse
[]


An abnormal stroke risk
[]


How nature''s recipes help in combating cholesterol
[]


'Common knee surgery does very little for some''
[]


For fitness intensity matters
[]


Single-parent house tied to hypertension in offspring
[]


High chairs lead to toddler injuries, say researchers
[]


Try home remedies to keep cough and cold at bay
[]


Rethink your vitamin pills
[]


Keeping little breaths flowing
[]


Limits of vitamin D supplements
[]


In food cravings, sugar trumps fat
[]


Going nuts
[]


Exercise  a potent  medicine
[]


Study: High BMI tied to hearing loss in women
[]


Spices, a valuable addition to a heart-healthy diet
[]


Muscle aches from statins? Could be drug interactions
[]


Mixing workout with pleasure
[]


Dutch sound alarm on e-cigarette risks
[]


While shifting to gluten-free diet, exercise caution
[]


A pain that''s hard to discuss
[]


Birth control pills may raise eye risks
[]


Plant-based diet helps fight harmful effects of angiogenesis
[]


The question of statins
[]


Knee replacement cuts heart risks
[]


A lifestyle change can reverse heart disease: US doctor
[]


Environmental, genetic factors behind 'Syndrome X''
[]


Rethinking term pregnancy
[]


Tea can impart medicinal benefits
[]


Autism clues in baby eyes
[]


Tea can impart medicinal benefits
[]


Autism clues in baby eyes
[]


Children need flu shots too
[]


How to watch your weight during the festival season
[]


How fit are you? Use a calculator to find out
[]


Marathon runners as couch potatoes
[]


Creating music too can boost workouts
[]


Creating music too can boost workouts
[]


Don't let 'fat-free' and 'diet' labels mislead you
[]


High BMI may up risk of heart disease: Study
[]


Spanking tied to bad behaviour in children
[]


9 dead in accident in Barnala
[]


Chautala in jail, Haryana gears up to fill posts
[]


SAD(D) urges  Sikhs to dump Modi
[]


BJP flays HP govt for offering job to ex-top cop son
[]


Dhumal slams govt for apple price crash
[]


Ex-women panel chief 'molested'' in house, cops hunt for neighbours
[]


'Stalked'' by 2 youths, girl immolates herself
[]


In PM mode, Narendra Modi tones down Pakistan stand
[]


Briefly region
[]


To press for quota, Jats plan massive protests from October
[]


Haryana Vigilance to probe scam in HSDC during Khemka''s tenure
[]


Woman chops up husband, kills self
[]


Pakistan-made grenades seized at Punjab border, sets off alarm bells
[]


RBI report an eye-opener for Congress: Badal
[]


Cong wants CBI probe into state''s economy
[]


Badal dares Bajwa on relief amount
[]


Inundated for 20 days, Muktsar villages live in fear of disease
[]


HC vacates stay on Grand Masti release
[]


Nanded man headed 'terror unit'' in Punjab
[]


Modi or anyone else, SAD with BJP: Sukhbir
[]


3-year-old raped, killed in Rohtak
[]


To preserve vegetables and fruits, Punjab to set up radiation unit
[]


Anticipatory bail pleas of Jain, Zile Ram rejected
[]


Punjab to order Vigilance probe into judge 'bribery''
[]


Sidhu set to visit Amritsar again today
[]


Gurgaon CJM transferred  to Jagadhri
[]


After seven months, dal back in atta-dal; Punjab saves Rs 56 cr
[]


Nanded man arrested for 'terror' plans in Punjab
[]


HC seeks report from CBI on witness protection plea
[]


Woman cries rape, cops arrest her for 'threat to kill'' DSP
[]


Gang with 'terror links'' busted in Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 held
[]


SC refuses to extend Chautala bail, says plea common VIP ploy
[]


'Recommended posting that official was trying to avoid''
[]


Briefly State: Cops 'helped convicts go home'', booked
[]


It''s showtime for farmers in remote areas
[]


Cong seeks intervention of Sushma, Harsimrat
[]


Sonia served US court summons
[]


'More subsidies needed to revive exports''
[]


Explain Modi''s assurances on farmers: Bajwa to CM
[]


CM announces immediate payment of dues as 'flood relief''
[]


Govt: Brahmins, Punjabis will get benefit of quota given to EWCs
[]


House slams Abhay for his 'selfish'' conduct as IOA chief
[]


Haryana Assembly: Pak migrants to get their lands on lease for another 99 years
[]


Teachers' recruitment scam: SC sets Sept 23 deadline for Chautala to surrender
[]


Briefly region
[]


Badal showing fake sympathy for Kutch Sikh farmers: Bajwa
[]


Land grab case: No clue yet on beneficiary
[]


Honey Singh may have to give voice samples
[]


Bansal: Was called from jail for probe into sting on judge
[]


Kaidi no. so and so
[]


Close liquor shops on 'auspicious Tuesdays': NCW chief urges Badal
[]


'Lokayukta settles 409 cases, govt takes action in only 9'
[]


Govt to seek legal opinion on Chautalas'' trust properties
[]


No Lokayukta, INLD wants probe by HC, SC judge
[]


Sidhu says plan a 'lollypop'
[]


Sukhbir promises new-look Amritsar
[]


Beneficiaries missing from list, Haryana blames 'computer virus'
[]


'Sardar Modi' country's greatest leader: Parkash Singh Badal
[]


PU takes U-turn, says student submitted forged documents
[]


Father of rescued minor girl alleges kidnap bid
[]


Registrar slaps notice on HPCA
[]


Punjab doing much better than some developed states: Sukhbir
[]


'57 missing defence personnel are in Pak custody''
[]


Briefly Region: Human rights website launched
[]


3 Oppn MLAs walk out
[]


MLAs trade charges over sting CDs, INLD protests
[]


'Mistaken'' as Kala Kachcha gang member, elderly man lynched
[]


NRHM caveat for Punjab
[]


2 get life for rape of minor
[]


'In Punjab, groundwater level recedes by 33 cm daily due to water-intensive agri''
[]


Modi to Badal: No Punjabi or Sikh farmer will be displaced
[]


Schools merged, students stop attending classes
[]


Former Patiala special CBI judge suspended
[]


Free treatment for girls up to 5 years old
[]


Danish student molested, leaves India
[]


HP gets capital, freight subsidy boost
[]


Absconding lawmakers add to Haryana''s hall of shame
[]


Fearing displacement, Sikh farmers in Gujarat hope Badal will take up their cause
[]


A different Abhay
[]


Now, Ludhiana-New Delhi Shatabdi to run every day
[]


Finance panel visits flood-affected Muktsar
[]


Cong slams Sukhbir on agro policy
[]


Sent girl to study, not work  at Thapar''s house: Father
[]


Danish student molested by autorickshaw driver outside Amristar railway station
[]


On eve of CM''s Gujarat visit, PAU passes new wheat variety at emergency meet
[]


Pakistan arrests drug smuggler on info provided by Indian Customs department
[]


Heroin worth Rs 4 crore seized in two days
[]


Anyone going abroad was listed terrorist: DSP
[]


With seal on fuel supply deal, state may look forward to power surplus
[]


Briefly State
[]


Centre nod to Himachal administrative tribunal
[]


Kanda slips away as House discusses criminals in politics
[]


Two men from Punjab shot dead in US
[]


Huge haul of heroin from truck at Attari, 3 Pak SIMs seized
[]


Change rate of compounding fee: Builders demand
[]


From champion to rickshaw-puller: A dream lies shattered
[]


